THEOSOPHICAL MANUALS. No. 5

                           THE ASTRAL PLANE

                     ITS SCENERY, INHABITANTS AND

                              PHENOMENA

                           C. W. LEADBEATER

                               London:

                   Theosophical Publishing Society

                    7 Duke Street, Adelphi, W.C.

              BENARES: THEOSOPHICAL PUBLISHING SOCIETY,

              MADRAS: The Theosophist OFFICE, ADYAR.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS.

Introduction.

Scenery.--The Seven Subdivisions--Degrees of Materiality--Characteristics of Astral Vision--The
Aura--The Etheric Double--Power of Magnifying Minute Objects--The "Summerland"--Records of
the Astral Light.

Inhabitants.--I. Human. (1) Living:--The Adept or Chela in Mâyâvirûpa--The Psychically Developed
Person--The Ordinary Person in Astral Body--The Black Magician. (2) Dead:--The Nirmânakâya--The
Chela awaiting Reincarnation--The Ordinary Person after Death--The Shade--The Shell--The Vitalized
Shell--The Suicide--The Victim of Sudden Death--The Vampire--The Werewolf--The Black Magician
after Death. II. Non-human:--The Elemental Essence--The Kâmarûpas of Animals--Various Classes
of Nature-Spirits, commonly called Fairies--Kâmadevas--Rûpadevas--Arûpadevas--The Devarâjahs.
III. Artificial:--Elementals formed Unconsciously--Guardian Angels--Elementals formed Consciously--Human
Artificials--The True Origin of Spiritualism.

Phenomena.--Churchyard Ghosts.--Apparitions of the Dying--Haunted Localities--Family Ghosts--Bell-ringing,
Stone-throwing, etc.--Fairies--Communicating Entities--Astral Resources--Clairvoyance--Prevision--Second-Sight--Astral
Forces--Etheric Currents--Etheric Pressure--Latent Energy--Sympathetic Vibration--Mantras--Disintegration--Materialization--Why
Darkness is required at a Séance--Spirit Photographs--Reduplication--Precipitation of Letters
and Pictures--Slate-writing--Levitation--Spirit Lights--Handling Fire--Transmutation--Repercussion.

Conclusion.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ASTRAL PLANE.

INTRODUCTION

Reference to the astral plane, or Kâmaloka as it is called in Sanskrit, has frequently been
made by Theosophical writers, and a good deal of information on the subject of this realm of
nature is to be found scattered here and there in our books; but there is not, so far as I
am aware, any single volume to which one can turn for a complete summary of the facts at present
known to us about this interesting region. The object of this manual is to collect and make
some attempt to arrange this scattered information, and also to supplement it slightly in cases
where new facts have come to our knowledge. It must be understood that any such additions are
only the result of the investigations of a few explorers, and must not, therefore, be taken
as in any way authoritative, but are given simply for what they are worth. On the other hand
every precaution in our power has been taken to ensure accuracy, no fact, old or new, being
admitted to this manual unless it has been confirmed by the testimony of at least two independent
trained investigators among ourselves, and has also been passed as correct by older students
whose knowledge on these points is necessarily much greater than ours. It is hoped, therefore,
that this account of the astral plane, though it cannot be considered as quite complete, may
yet be found reliable as far as it goes.

The first point which it is necessary to make clear in describing this astral plane is its
absolute reality. Of course in using that word I am not speaking from that metaphysical standpoint
from which all but the One Unmanifested is unreal because impermanent; I am using the word
in its plain, every-day sense, and I mean by it that the objects and inhabitants of the astral
plane are real in exactly the same way as our own bodies, our furniture, our houses or monuments
are real--as real as Charing Cross, to quote an expressive remark from one of the earliest
Theosophical works. They will no more endure for ever than will objects on the physical plane,
but they are nevertheless realities from our point of view while they last--realities which
we cannot afford to ignore merely because the majority of mankind is as yet unconscious, or
but vaguely conscious, of their existence.

There appears to be considerable misunderstanding even among Theosophical students upon this
question of the reality of the various planes of the universe. This may perhaps be partly due
to the fact that the word "plane" has occasionally been very loosely used in our literature--writers
speaking vaguely of the mental plane, the moral plane, and so on; and this vagueness has led
many people to suppose that the information on the subject which is to be found in Theosophical
books is inexact and speculative--a mere hypothesis incapable of definite proof. No one can
get a clear conception of the teachings of the Wisdom-Religion until he has at any rate an
intellectual grasp of the fact that in our solar system there exist perfectly definite planes,
each with its own matter of different degrees of density, and that some of these planes can
be visited and observed by persons who have qualified themselves for the work, exactly as a
foreign country might be visited and observed; and that, by comparison of the observations
of those who are constantly working on these planes, evidence can be obtained of their existence
and nature at least as satisfactory as that which most of us have for the existence of Greenland
or Spitzbergen. The names usually given to these planes, taking them in order of materiality,
rising from the denser to the finer, are the physical, the astral, the devachanic, the sushuptic,
and the nirvânic. Higher than this last are two others, but they are so far above our present
power of conception that for the moment they may be left out of consideration. Now it should
be understood that the matter of each of these planes differs from that of the one below it
in the same way as, though to a much greater degree than, vapour differs from solid matter;
in fact, the states of matter which we call solid, liquid, and gaseous are merely the three
lowest subdivisions of the matter belonging to this one physical plane.

The astral region which I am to attempt to describe is the second of these great planes of
nature--the next above (or within) that physical world with which we are all familiar. It has
often been called the realm of illusion--not that it is itself any more illusory than the physical
world, but because of the extreme unreliability of the impressions brought back from it by
the untrained seer. This is to be accounted for mainly by two remarkable characteristics of
the astral world--first, that many of its inhabitants have a marvellous power of changing their
forms with Protean rapidity, and also of casting practically unlimited glamour over those with
whom they choose to sport; and secondly, that sight on that plane is a faculty very different
from and much more extended than physical vision. An object is seen, as it were, from all sides
at once, the inside of a solid being as plainly open to the view as the outside; it is therefore
obvious that an inexperienced visitor to this new world may well find considerable difficulty
in understanding what he really does see, and still more in translating his vision into the
very inadequate language of ordinary speech. A good example of the sort of mistake that is
likely to occur is the frequent reversal of any number which the seer has to read from the
astral light, so that he would be liable to render, say, 139 as 931, and so on. In the case
of a student of occultism trained by a capable Master such a mistake would be impossible except
through great hurry or carelessness, since such a pupil has to go through a long and varied
course of instruction in this art of seeing correctly, the Master, or perhaps some more advanced
pupil, bringing before him again and again all possible forms of illusion, and asking him "What
do you see?" Any errors in his answers are then corrected and their reasons explained, until
by degrees the neophyte acquires a certainty and confidence in dealing with the phenomena of
the astral plane which far exceeds anything possible in physical life. But he has to learn
not only to see correctly but to translate the memory of what he has seen accurately from one
plane to the other; and to assist him in this he is trained to carry his consciousness without
break from the physical plane to the astral or devachanic and back again, for until that can
be done there is always a possibility that his recollections may be partially lost or distorted
during the blank interval which separates his periods of consciousness on the various planes.
When the power of bringing over the consciousness is perfectly acquired the pupil will have
the advantage of the use of all the astral faculties, not only while out of his body during
sleep or trance, but also while fully awake in ordinary physical life.

It has been the custom of some Theosophists to speak with scorn of the astral plane, and treat
it as entirely unworthy of attention; but that seems to me a somewhat mistaken view. Most assuredly
that at which we have to aim is the purely spiritual plane, and it would be most disastrous
for any student to neglect that higher development and rest satisfied with the attainment of
astral consciousness. There are some whose Karma is such as to enable them to develop the purely
spiritual faculties first of all--to over-leap the astral plane for the time, as it were; and
when afterwards they make its acquaintance they have, if their spiritual development has been
perfect, the immense advantage of dipping into it from above, with the aid of a spiritual insight
which cannot be deceived and a spiritual strength which nothing can resist. It is, however,
a mistake to suppose, as some writers have done, that this is the only, or even the ordinary
method adopted by the Masters of Wisdom with their pupils. Where it is possible it saves much
trouble, but for most of us such progress by leaps and bounds has been forbidden by our own
faults or follies in the past: all that we can hope for is to win our way slowly step by step,
and since this astral plane lies next to our world of denser matter, it is usually in connection
with it that our earliest superphysical experiences take place. It is therefore by no means
without interest to those of us who are but beginners in these studies, and a clear comprehension
of its mysteries may often be of the greatest importance to us, not only by enabling us to
understand many of the phenomena of the séance-room, of haunted houses, etc., which would otherwise
be inexplicable, but also to guard ourselves and others from possible dangers.

The first introduction to this remarkable region comes to people in various ways. Among those
who make a study of these subjects, some try to develop the astral sight by crystal-gazing
or other methods, while those who have the inestimable advantage of the direct guidance of
a qualified teacher will probably be placed upon that plane for the first time under his special
protection, which will be continued until, by the application of various tests, he has satisfied
himself that the pupil is proof against any danger or terror that he is likely to encounter.
But, however it may occur, the first actual realization that we are all the while in the midst
of a great world full of active life, of which most of us are nevertheless entirely unconscious,
cannot but be to some extent a memorable epoch in a man's existence.

So abundant and so manifold is this life of the astral plane that at first it is absolutely
bewildering to the neophyte; and even for the more practised investigator it is no easy task
to attempt to classify and to catalogue it. If the explorer of some unknown tropical forest
were asked not only to give a full account of the country through which he had passed, with
accurate details of its vegetable and mineral productions, but also to state the genus and
species of every one of the myriad insects, birds, beasts, and reptiles which he had seen,
he might well shrink appalled at the magnitude of the undertaking: yet even this affords no
parallel to the embarrassments of the psychic investigator, for in his case matters are further
complicated, first by the difficulty of correctly translating from that plane to this the recollection
of what he has seen, and secondly by the utter inadequacy of ordinary language to express much
of what he has to report. However, just as the explorer on the physical plane would probably
commence his account of a country by some sort of general description of its scenery and characteristics,
so it will be well to begin this slight sketch of the astral plane by endeavouring to give
some idea of the scenery which forms the background of its marvellous and ever-changing activities.
Yet here at the outset an almost insuperable difficulty confronts us in the extreme complexity
of the matter. All who see fully on that plane agree that to attempt to call up before those
whose eyes are as yet unopened a vivid picture of this astral scenery is like speaking to a
blind man of the exquisite variety of tints in a sunset sky--however detailed and elaborate
the description may be, there is no certainty that the idea presented before the hearer's mind
will be an adequate representation of the truth.

SCENERY.

First of all, then, it must be understood that the astral plane has seven subdivisions, each
of which has its corresponding degree of materiality and its corresponding condition of matter.
Now numbering these from the highest and least material downwards, we find that they naturally
fall into three classes, divisions 1, 2 and 3 forming one such class, and 4, 5 and 6 another,
while the seventh and lowest of all stands alone. The difference between the matter of one
of these classes and the next would be commensurable with that between a solid and a liquid,
while the difference between the matter of the subdivisions of a class would rather resemble
that between two kinds of solid, such as, say, steel and sand. Putting aside for the moment
the seventh, we may say that divisions 4, 5 and 6 of the astral plane have for their background
the physical world we live in and all its familiar accessories. Life on the sixth division
is simply our ordinary life on this earth, minus the physical body and its necessities; while
as it ascends through the fifth and fourth divisions it becomes less and less material, and
is more and more withdrawn from our lower world and its interests.

The scenery of these lower divisions, then, is that of the earth as we know it: but it is also
very much more; for when looked at from this different standpoint, with the assistance of the
astral senses, even purely physical objects present a very different appearance. As has already
been mentioned, they are seen by one whose eyes are fully opened, not as usual from one point
of view, but from all sides at once--an idea in itself sufficiently confusing; and when we
add to this that every particle in the interior of a solid body is as fully and clearly visible
as those on the outside, it will be comprehended that under such conditions even the most familiar
objects may at first be totally unrecognizable. Looked at on the astral plane, for example,
the sides of a glass cube would all appear equal, as they really are, while on the physical
plane we see the further side in perspective--that is, it appears smaller than the nearer side,
which is, of course, a mere illusion. It is this characteristic of astral vision which has
led to its sometimes being spoken of as sight in the fourth dimension--a very suggestive and
expressive phrase. But in addition to these possible sources of error matters are further complicated
by the fact that astral sight cognizes forms of matter which, while still purely physical,
are nevertheless invisible under ordinary conditions. Such, for example, are the particles
composing the atmosphere, all the various emanations which are always being given out by everything
that has life, and also four grades of a still finer order of physical matter which, for want
of more distinctive names, must all he described as etheric. The latter form a kind of system
by themselves, freely interpenetrating all other physical matter; and the investigation of
their vibrations and the manner in which various higher forces affect them would in itself
constitute a vast field of deeply interesting study for any man of science who possessed the
requisite sight for its examination.

Even when our imagination has fully grasped all that is comprehended in what has already been
said, we do not yet understand half the complexity of the problem; for besides all these new
forms of physical matter we have to deal with the still more numerous and perplexing subdivisions
of astral matter. We must note first that every material object, every particle even, has its
astral counterpart; and this counterpart is itself not a simple body, but is usually extremely
complex, being composed of various kinds of astral matter. In addition to this each living
creature is surrounded with an atmosphere of its own, usually called its aura, and in the case
of human beings this aura forms of itself a very fascinating branch of study. It is seen as
an oval mass of luminous mist of highly complex structure, and from its shape has sometimes
been called the auric egg. Theosophical readers will hear with pleasure that even at the early
stage of his development at which the pupil begins to acquire this astral sight, he is able
to assure himself by direct observation of the accuracy of the teaching given through our great
founder, Madame Blavatsky, on the subject of some at least of the seven principles of man.
In regarding his fellow-man he no longer sees only his outer appearance; exactly co-extensive
with that physical body he clearly distinguishes the etheric double, which in Theosophical
literature has usually been called the Linga Sharîra; while the Jîva, as it is absorbed and
specialized into Prâna, as it circulates in rosy light throughout the body, as it eventually
radiates from the healthy person in its altered form, is also perfectly obvious. Most brilliant
and most easily seen of all, perhaps, though belonging to quite a different order of matter--the
astral--is the kâmic aura, which expresses by its vivid and ever-changing flashes of colour
the different desires which sweep across the man's mind from moment to moment. This is the
true astral body. Behind that, and consisting of a finer grade of matter--that of the rûpa
levels of Devachan--lies the devachanic body or aura of the lower Manas, whose colours, changing
only by slow degrees as the man lives his life, show the disposition and character of the personality;
while still higher and infinitely more beautiful, where at all clearly developed, is the living
light of the Kârana Sharîra, the aura or vehicle of the higher Manas, which shows the stage
of development of the real Ego in its passage from birth to birth. When the Eagle-emperor came
home that night his wife met him affectionately; but he paid no attention
to her greeting, but asked her, "What man has come into my castle?

Tell me at once!"

She answered, "There is no one here," and they sat down to supper. During supper she asked him, as if by
chance, "Would you do any harm to my brothers if they should suddenly arrive?"

The Emperor answered, "The eldest and the second I should kill without hesitation, but not the youngest.
On the contrary, I would hasten to his aid at any time, as far as it was in my power."

Then she said to the Emperor, "My youngest brother is come to pay us a visit."

The Emperor commanded that he should be presented at once, went to meet him and greeted him
with "Welcome, dear brother-in-law!"

The other answered, "A lucky and joyful meeting, dear sister's husband!"

So they sat down to the table.

After supper they talked of one thing
and another, and at last the Prince told them that he was seeking
for Steelpacha. When the Eagle-emperor heard this he said everything
he could think of to dissuade him from this idea.

"Dear brother-in-law,"
said he, "leave that fiend alone and give up your journey. Stay, rather,
here with me; you shall be made happy in every respect."

But the
Prince paid no heed to his words, and as soon as morning dawned he
made ready and set off to seek Steelpacha. Nevertheless the human aura, or more usually some one part of
it only, is not infrequently one of the first purely astral objects seen by the untrained,
though in such a case its indications are naturally very likely to be misunderstood.

Though the kâmic aura from the brilliancy of its flashes of colour may often be more conspicuous,
the nerve-ether and the etheric double are really of a much denser order of matter, being strictly
speaking within the limits of the physical plane, though invisible to ordinary sight. It has
been the custom in Theosophical literature to describe the Linga Sharîra as the astral counterpart
of the human body, the word "astral" having been usually applied to everything beyond the cognition
of our physical senses. As closer investigation enables us to be more precise in the use of
our terms, however, we find ourselves compelled to admit much of this invisible matter as purely
physical, and therefore to define the Linga Sharîra no longer as the astral, but as the etheric
double. This seems an appropriate name for it, since it consists of various grades of that
matter which scientists call "ether," though this proves on examination to be not a separate
substance, as has been generally supposed, but a condition of finer subdivision than the gaseous,
to which any kind of physical matter may be reduced by the application of the appropriate forces.
The name "etheric double" will therefore for the future be used in Theosophic writings instead
of "Linga Sharîra": and this change will not only give us the advantage of an English name
which is clearly indicative of the character of the body to which it is applied, but will also
relieve us from the frequent misunderstandings which have arisen from the fact that an entirely
different signification is attached in all the Oriental books to the name we have hitherto
been using. It must not however be supposed that in making this alteration in nomenclature
we are in any way putting forward a new conception; we are simply altering, for the sake of
greater accuracy, the labels previously attached to certain facts in nature. If we examine
with psychic faculty the body of a newly-born child, we shall find it permeated not only by
astral matter of every degree of density, but also by the several grades of etheric matter;
and if we take the trouble to trace these inner bodies backwards to their origin, we find that
it is of the latter that the etheric double--the mould upon which the physical body is built
up--is formed by the agents of the LORDS of Karma; while the astral matter has been gathered
together by the descending Ego--not of course consciously, but automatically--as he passes
through the astral plane. (See Manual No. IV., p. 44.)

Into the composition of the etheric double must enter something of all the different grades
of etheric matter; but the proportions may vary greatly, and are determined by several factors,
such as the race, sub-race, and type of a man, as well as by his individual Karma. When it
is remembered that these four subdivisions of matter are made up of numerous combinations,
which, in their turn, form aggregations that enter into the composition of the "atom" of the
so-called "element" of the chemist, it will be seen that this second principle of man is highly
complex, and the number of its possible variations practically infinite, so that, however complicated
and unusual a man's Karma may be, the LIPIKA are able to give a mould in accordance with which
a body exactly suiting it can be formed.

One other point deserves mention in connection with the appearance of physical matter when
looked at from the astral plane, and that is that the astral vision possesses the power of
magnifying at will the minutest physical particle to any desired size, as though by a microscope,
though its magnifying power is enormously greater than that of any microscope ever made or
ever likely to be made. The hypothetical molecule and atom postulated by science are therefore
visible realities to the occult student, though the latter recognizes them as much more complex
in their nature than the scientific man has yet discovered them to be. Here again is a vast
field of study of absorbing interest to which a whole volume might readily be devoted; and
a scientific investigator who should acquire this astral sight in perfection, would not only
find his experiments with ordinary and known phenomena immensely facilitated, but would also
see stretching before him entirely new vistas of knowledge needing more than a lifetime for
their thorough examination. For example, one curious and very beautiful novelty brought to
his notice by the development of this vision would be the existence of other and entirely different
colours beyond the limits of the ordinarily visible spectrum, the ultra-red and ultra-violet
rays which science has discovered by other means being plainly perceptible to astral sight.
We must not, however, allow ourselves to follow these fascinating bye-paths, but must resume
our endeavour to give a general idea of the appearance of the astral plane.

It will by this time be obvious that though, as above stated, the ordinary objects of the physical
world form the background to life on certain levels of the astral plane, yet so much more is
seen of their real appearance and characteristics that the general effect differs widely from
that with which we are familiar. For the sake of illustration take a rock as an example of
the simpler class of objects. When regarded with trained sight it is no mere inert mass of
stone. First of all, the whole of the physical matter of the rock is seen instead of a very
small part of it; secondly, the vibrations of its physical particles are perceptible; thirdly,
it is seen to possess an astral counterpart composed of various grades of astral matter, whose
particles are also in constant motion; fourthly, the Jîva or universal life is seen to be circulating
through it and radiating from it; fifthly, an aura will be seen surrounding it, though this
is, of course, much less extended and varied than in the case of the higher kingdoms; sixthly,
its appropriate elemental essence is seen permeating it, ever active but ever fluctuating.
In the case of the vegetable, animal and human kingdoms, the complications are naturally much
more numerous.

It may be objected by some readers that no such complexities as these are described by most
of the psychics who occasionally get glimpses of the astral world, nor are they reported at
séances by the entities that manifest there; but this is readily accounted for. Few untrained
persons on that plane, whether living or dead, see things as they really are until after very
long experience; even those who do see fully are often too dazed and confused to understand
or remember: and among the very small minority who both see and remember there are hardly any
who can translate the recollection into language on our lower plane. Many untrained psychics
never examine their visions scientifically at all: they simply obtain an impression which may
be quite correct, but may also be half false, or even wholly misleading.

All the more probable does the latter hypothesis become when we take into consideration the
frequent tricks played by sportive denizens of the other world, against which the untrained
person is usually absolutely defenceless. It must also be remembered that the regular inhabitant
of the astral plane, whether he be human or elemental, is under ordinary circumstances conscious
only of the objects of that plane, physical matter being to him as entirely invisible as is
astral matter to the majority of mankind. Since, as before remarked, every physical object
has its astral counterpart, which would be visible to him, it may be thought that the distinction
is a trivial one, yet it is an essential part of the symmetrical conception of the subject.
If, however, an astral entity constantly works through a medium, these finer astral senses
may gradually be so coarsened as to become insensible to the higher grades of matter on their
own plane, and to include in their purview the physical world as we see it instead; but only
the trained visitor from this life, who is fully conscious on both planes, can depend upon
seeing both clearly and simultaneously. Be it understood, then, that the complexity exists,
and that only when it is fully perceived and scientifically unravelled is there perfect security
against deception or mistake.

For the seventh or lowest subdivision of the astral plane also this physical world of ours
may be said to be the background, though what is seen is only a distorted and partial view
of it, since all that is light and good and beautiful seems invisible. It was thus described
four thousand years ago in the Egyptian papyrus of the Scribe Ani: "What manner of place is
this unto which I have come? For the unfortunate entity on that level it is indeed true that
"all the earth is full of darkness and cruel habitations," but it is darkness which radiates
from within himself and causes his existence to be passed in a perpetual night of evil and
horror--a very real hell, though, like all other hells, entirely of man's own creation.

Most students find the investigation of this section an extremely unpleasant task, for there
appears to be a sense of density and gross materiality about it which is indescribably loathsome
to the liberated astral body, causing it the sense of pushing its way through some black, viscous
fluid, while the inhabitants and influences encountered there are also usually exceedingly
undesirable.

The first, second, and third subdivisions seem much further removed from this physical world,
and correspondingly less material. Entities inhabiting these levels lose sight of the earth
and its belongings; they are usually deeply self-absorbed, and to a large extent create their
own surroundings, though these are not purely subjective, as in Devachan, but on the contrary
sufficiently objective to be perceptible to other entities and also to clairvoyant vision.
This region is beyond doubt the "summerland" of which we hear so much at spiritualistic séances,
and the entities who descend from and describe it are probably often speaking the truth as
far as their knowledge extends. It is on these planes that "spirits" call into temporary existence
their houses, schools, and cities, for these objects are often real enough for the time, though
to a clearer sight they may sometimes be pitiably unlike what their delighted creators suppose
them to be. Nevertheless, many of the imaginations that take form there are of real though
temporary beauty, and a visitor who knew of nothing higher might wander contentedly enough
there among forests and mountains, lovely lakes and pleasant flower-gardens, or might even
construct such surroundings to suit his own fancies.

It may be said in passing that communication is limited on the astral plane by the knowledge
of the entity, just as it is here. While a person able to function freely on that plane can
communicate with any of the human entities there present more readily and rapidly than on earth,
by means of mental impressions, the inhabitants themselves do not usually seem able to exercise
this power, but appear to be restricted by limitations similar to those that prevail on earth,
though perhaps less rigid. The result of this is that they are found associating, there as
here in groups drawn together by common sympathies, beliefs, and language.

An account of the scenery of the astral plane would be incomplete without mention of what are
commonly called the Records of the Astral Light, the photographic representation of all that
has ever happened. These records are really and permanently impressed upon that higher medium
called the Âkâsha, and are only reflected in a more or less spasmodic manner in the astral
light, so that one whose power of vision does not rise above this plane will be likely to obtain
only occasional and disconnected pictures of the past instead of a coherent narrative. But
nevertheless pictures of all kinds of past events are constantly being reproduced on the astral
plane, and form an important part of the surroundings of the investigator there.

INHABITANTS.

Having sketched in, however slightly, the background of our picture, we must now attempt to
fill in the figures--to describe the inhabitants of the astral plane. The immense variety of
these entities makes it exceedingly difficult to arrange and tabulate them. Perhaps the most
convenient method will be to divide them into three great classes, the human, the non-human,
and the artificial.

I. HUMAN.

The human denizens of Kâmaloka fall naturally into two groups, the living and the dead, or,
to speak more accurately, those who have still a physical body, and those who have not.

1. LIVING.

The entities which manifest on the astral plane during physical life may be subdivided into
four classes:

1. The Adept or Chela in the Mâyâvirûpa. This body is the artificial vehicle used on the four
lower or rûpa divisions of the devachanic plane by those capable of functioning there during
earth-life, and is formed out of the substance of the mind-body. There are doubtless many among
the inhabitants of our towns and cities who have never gathered or seen the strawberry in its
wild state; and many, very many more who are wholly unacquainted with the peculiar and interesting
structure of this fruit and its allies--the raspberry, blackberry, dewberry, and their congeners.
The plant which bears the strawberry, whether the wild or garden
species, is an herb with three-partite leaves, notched at the edge
with a pair of largo membraneous stipules at their base. When this facility
is attained this vehicle is habitually used in place of the grosser astral body, since it permits
of instant passage from the astral to the devachanic plane and back again at will, and allows
of the use at all times of the higher powers belonging to its own plane. It must be noted,
however, that a person travelling in the Mâyâvirûpa is not perceptible to merely astral vision
unless he chooses to make himself so by gathering around him particles of astral matter and
so creating for himself a temporary body suitable to that plane, though such a temporary creation
would resemble the ordinary astral body only as a materialization resembles the physical body;
in each case it is a manifestation of a higher entity on a lower plane in order to make himself
visible to those whose senses cannot yet transcend that plane. But whether he be in the Mâyâvirûpa
or the astral body, the pupil who is introduced to the astral plane under the guidance of a
competent teacher has always the fullest possible consciousness there, and is in fact himself,
exactly as his friends know him on earth, minus only the four lower principles in the former
case and the three lower in the latter, and plus the additional powers and faculties of this
higher condition, which enable him to carry on far more easily and far more efficiently on
that plane during sleep the Theosophical work which occupies so much of his thought in his
waking hours. Whether he will remember fully and accurately on the physical plane what he has
done or learnt on the other depends largely, as before stated, upon whether he is able to carry
his consciousness without intermission from the one state to the other.

2. The Psychically-developed Person who is not under the guidance of a Master. Such a person
may or may not be spiritually developed, for the two forms of advancement do not necessarily
go together, and when a man is born with psychic powers it is simply the result of efforts
made during a previous incarnation, which may have been of the noblest and most unselfish character,
or on the other hand may have been ignorant and ill-directed or even entirely unworthy. Such
an one will usually be perfectly conscious when out of the body, but for want of proper training
is liable to be greatly deceived as to what he sees. He will often be able to range through
the different subdivisions of the astral plane almost as fully as persons belonging to the
last class; but sometimes he is especially attracted to some one division and rarely travels
beyond its influences. His recollection of what he has seen may vary according to the degree
of his development through all the stages from perfect clearness to utter distortion or blank
oblivion. He will appear always in the astral body, since by the hypothesis he does not know
how to form the Mâyâvirûpa.

3. The Ordinary Person--that is, the person without any psychic development--floating about
in his astral body in a more or less unconscious condition. In deep slumber the higher principles
in their astral vehicle almost invariably withdraw from the body, and hover in its immediate
neighbourhood, practically almost as much asleep as the latter. In some cases, however, this
astral vehicle is less lethargic, and floats dreamily about on the various astral currents,
occasionally recognizing other people in a similar condition, and meeting with experiences
of all sorts, pleasant and unpleasant, the memory of which, hopelessly confused and often travestied
into a grotesque caricature of what really happened, will cause the man to think next morning
what a remarkable dream he has had. These extruded astral bodies are almost shapeless and very
indefinite in outline in the case of the more backward races and individuals, but as the man
develops in intellect and spirituality his floating astral becomes better defined and more
closely resembles his physical encasement. Since the psychical faculties of mankind are in
course of evolution, and individuals are at all stages of their development, this class naturally
melts by imperceptible gradations into the former one.

4. The Black Magician or his pupil. This class corresponds closely to the first, except that
the development has been for evil instead of good, and the powers acquired are used for purely
selfish purposes instead of for the benefit of humanity. Among its lower ranks come members
of the negro race who practise the ghastly rites of the Obeah or Voodoo schools, and the medicine-men
of many a savage tribe; while higher in intellect, and therefore the more blame-worthy, stand
the Tibetan black magicians, who are often, though incorrectly, called by Europeans Dûgpas--a
title properly belonging, as is quite correctly explained by Surgeon-Major Waddell in his recent
work on The Buddhism of Tibet, only to the Bhotanese subdivision of the great Kargyu sect,
which is part of what may be called the semi-reformed school of Tibetan Buddhism. The Dûgpas
no doubt deal in Tântrik magic to a considerable extent, but the real red-hatted entirely unreformed
sect is that of the Ñin-mâ-pa, though far beyond them in a still lower depth lie the Bön-pa--the
votaries of the aboriginal religion, who have never accepted any form of Buddhism at all. It
must not, however, be supposed that all Tibetan sects except the Gelûgpa are necessarily and
altogether evil; a truer view would be that as the rules of other sects permit considerably
greater laxity of life and practice, the proportion of self-seekers among them is likely to
be much larger than among the stricter reformers. The investigator will occasionally meet on
the astral plane students of occultism from all parts of the world (belonging to lodges quite
unconnected with the Masters of whom Theosophists know most) who are in many cases most earnest
and self-sacrificing seekers after truth. It is noteworthy, however, that all such lodges are
at least aware of the existence of the great Himalayan Brotherhood, and acknowledge it as containing
among its members the highest Adepts now known on earth.

2. DEAD.

To begin with, of course this very word "dead" is an absurd misnomer, as most of the entities
classified under this heading are as fully alive as we are ourselves; the term must be understood
as meaning those who are for the time unattached to a physical body. They may be subdivided
into nine principal classes as follows:

1. The Nirmânakâya.

This class is just mentioned in order to make the catalogue complete, but it is of course very
rarely indeed that so exalted a being manifests himself upon so low a plane as this. When for
any reason connected with his sublime work he found it desirable to do so, he would probably
create a temporary astral body for the purpose, just as the Adept in the Mâyâvirûpa would do,
since the more refined vesture would be invisible to astral sight. Further information about
the position and work of the Nirmânakâyas may be found in Madame Blavatsky's Theosophical Glossary
and The Voice of the Silence.

2. The Chela awaiting reincarnation.

It has frequently been stated in Theosophical literature that when the pupil reaches a certain
stage he is able with the assistance of his Master to escape from the action of what is in
ordinary cases the law of nature which carries a human being into the devachanic condition
after death, there to receive his due reward in the full working out of all the spiritual forces
which his highest aspirations have set in motion while on earth. As the pupil must by the hypothesis
be a man of pure life and high thought, it is probable that in his case these spiritual forces
will be of abnormal strength, and therefore if he, to use the technical expression, "takes
his Devachan," it is likely to be an extremely long one; but if instead of taking it he chooses
the Path of Renunciation (thus even at his low level and in his humble way beginning to follow
in the footsteps of the Great Master of Renunciation, GAUTAMA BUDDHA Himself), he is able to
expend that reserve of force in quite another direction--to use it for the benefit of mankind,
and so, infinitesimal though his offering may be, to take his tiny part in the great work of
the Nirmânakâyas. By taking this course he no doubt sacrifices centuries of intense bliss,
but on the other hand he gains the enormous advantage of being able to continue his life of
work and progress without a break. When a pupil who has decided to do this dies, he simply
steps out of his body, as he has often done before, and waits upon the astral plane until a
suitable reincarnation can be arranged for him by his Master. This being a marked departure
from the usual course of procedure, the permission of a very high authority has to be obtained
before the attempt can be made; yet, even when this is granted, so strong is the force of natural
law, that it is said the pupil must be careful to confine himself strictly to the Kâmaloka
while the matter is being arranged, lest if he once, even for a moment, touched the devachanic
plane, he might be swept as by an irresistible current into the line of normal evolution again.
In some cases, though these are rare, he is enabled to avoid the trouble of a new birth by
being placed directly in an adult body whose previous tenant has no further use for it, but
naturally it is not often that a suitable body is available. Far more frequently he has to
wait on the astral plane, as mentioned before, until the opportunity of a fitting birth presents
itself. In the meantime, however, he is losing no time, for he is just as fully himself as
ever he was, and is able to go on with the work given him by his Master even more quickly and
efficiently than when in the physical body, since he is no longer hampered by the possibility
of fatigue. His consciousness is of course quite complete, and he roams at will through all
the divisions of the Kâmaloka with equal facility. The chela awaiting reincarnation is by no
means one of the common objects of the astral plane, but still he may be met with occasionally,
and therefore he forms one of our classes. No doubt as the evolution of humanity proceeds,
and an ever-increasing proportion enter upon the Path of Holiness, this class will become more
numerous.

3. The Ordinary Person after death.

Needless to say, this class is millions of times larger than those of which we have spoken,
and the character and condition of its members vary within extremely wide limits. Within similarly
wide limits may vary also the length of their lives upon the astral plane, for while there
are those who pass only a few days or hours there, others remain upon this level for many years
and even centuries. A man who has led a good and pure life, whose strongest feelings and aspirations
have been unselfish and spiritual, will have no attraction to this plane, and will, if entirely
left alone, find little to keep him upon it, or to awaken him into activity even during the
comparatively short period of his stay. For it must be understood that after death the true
man is withdrawing into himself, and just as at the first step of that process he casts off
the physical body, and almost directly afterwards the etheric double and the Prâna, so it is
intended that he should as soon as possible cast off also the astral or kâmic body, and pass
into the devachanic condition, where alone his spiritual aspirations can find their full fruition.
The noble and pure-minded man will be able to do this, for he has subdued all earthly passions
during life; the force of his will has been directed into higher channels, and there is therefore
but little energy of lower desire to be worked out in Kâmaloka. His stay there will consequently
be very short, and most probably he will have little more than a dreamy half-consciousness
of existence until he sinks into the sleep during which his higher principles finally free
themselves from the kâmic envelope and enter upon the blissful rest of Devachan.

For the person who has not as yet entered upon the path of occult development, what has been
described is the ideal state of affairs, but naturally it is not attained by all, or even by
the majority. The average man has by no means freed himself from the lower desires before death,
and it takes a long period of more or less fully conscious life on the astral plane to allow
the forces he has generated to work themselves out, and thus release the higher Ego. The body
which he occupies during this period is the Kâmarûpa which may be described as a rearrangement
of the matter of his astral body; but it is much more defined in outline, and there is also
this important difference between the two that while the astral body, if sufficiently awakened
during life to function at all freely, would probably be able to visit all, or at any rate
most, of the subdivisions of its plane, the Kâmarûpa has not that liberty, but is strictly
confined to that level to which its affinities have drawn it. It has, however, a certain kind
of progress connected with it, for it generally happens that the forces a man has set in motion
during earth-life need for their appropriate working out a sojourn on more divisions than one
of the Kâmaloka, and when this is the case a regular sequence is observed, commencing with
the lowest; so that when the Kâmarûpa has exhausted its attractions to one level, the greater
part of its grosser particles fall away, and it finds itself in affinity with a somewhat higher
state of existence. Its specific gravity, as it were, is constantly decreasing, and so it steadily
rises from the denser to the lighter strata, pausing only when it is exactly balanced for a
time. This is evidently the explanation of a remark frequently made by the entities which appear
at séances to the effect that they are about to rise to a higher sphere, from which it will
be impossible, or not so easy, to "communicate" through a medium; and it is as a matter of
fact true that a person upon the highest subdivision of this plane would find it almost impossible
to deal with any ordinary medium.

It ought perhaps to be explained here that the definiteness of outline which distinguishes
the Kâmarûpa from the astral body is of an entirely different character from that definiteness
which was described as a sign of progress in the astral of the man before death. There can
never be any possibility of confusion between the two entities, for while in the case of the
man attached to a physical body the different orders of astral particles are all inextricably
mingled and ceaselessly changing their position, after death their activity is much more circumscribed,
since they then sort themselves according to their degree of materiality, and become, as it
were, a series of sheaths or shells surrounding him, the grossest being always outside and
so dissipating before the others. This dissipation is not necessarily complete, the extent
to which it is carried being governed by the power of Manas to free itself from its connection
with any given level; and on this also, as will be seen later, the nature of the "shade" depends.

The poetic idea of death as a universal leveller is a mere absurdity born of ignorance, for,
as a matter of fact, in the vast majority of cases the loss of the physical body makes no difference
whatever in the character or intellect of the person, and there are therefore as many different
varieties of intelligence among those whom we usually call the dead as among the living. The
popular religious teaching of the West as to man's post-mortem adventures has long been so
wildly inaccurate that even intelligent people are often terribly puzzled when they recover
consciousness in Kâmaloka after death. The condition in which the new arrival finds himself
differs so radically from what he has been led to expect that it is no uncommon case for him
to refuse at first to believe that he has passed through the portals of death at all; indeed,
of so little practical value is our much-vaunted belief in the immortality of the soul that
most people consider the very fact that they are still conscious an absolute proof that they
have not died. The horrible doctrine of eternal punishment, too, is responsible for a vast
amount of most pitiable and entirely groundless terror among those newly arrived in Kâmaloka
who in many cases spend long periods of acute mental suffering before they can free themselves
from the fatal influence of that hideous blasphemy, and realize that the world is governed
not according to the caprice of some demon who gloats over human anguish, but according to
a benevolent and wonderfully patient law of evolution. Many members of the class we are considering
do not really attain an intelligent appreciation of this fact at all, but drift through their
astral interlude in the same aimless manner in which they have spent the physical portion of
their lives. Thus in Kâmaloka, exactly as on earth, there are the few who comprehend something
of their position and know how to make the best of it, and the many who have not yet acquired
that knowledge; and there, just as here, the ignorant are rarely ready to profit by the advice
or example of the wise.

But of whatever grade the entity's intellect may be, it is always a fluctuating and on the
whole a gradually diminishing quantity, for the lower Manas is being drawn in opposite directions
by the higher Triad which acts on it from above its level and the Kâma which operates from
below; and therefore it oscillates between the two attractions, with an ever-increasing tendency
towards the former as the kâmic forces wear themselves out. And here comes in the evil of what
is called at séances the "development" of a spirit through a medium--a process the object of
which is to intensify the downward pull of the Kâma, to awaken the lower portion of the entity
(that being all that can be reached) from the natural and desirable unconsciousness into which
it is passing, and thus to prolong unnaturally its existence in the Kâmaloka. The peculiar
danger of this will be seen when it is recollected that the real man is all the while steadily
withdrawing into himself, and is therefore as time goes on less and less able to influence
or guide this lower portion, which nevertheless, until the separation is complete, has the
power to generate Karma, and under the circumstances is obviously far more likely to add evil
than good to its record. Thus the harm done is threefold: first, the retardation of the separation
between Manas and Kâma, and the consequent waste of time and prolongation of the interval between
two incarnations; secondly, the extreme probability (almost amounting to certainty) that a
large addition will be made to the individual's evil Karma, which will have to be worked out
in future births; thirdly, the terrible danger that this abnormal intensification of the force
of Kâma may eventually enable the latter to entangle the whole of the lower Manas inextricably,
and so cause the entire loss of an incarnation. Though such a result as this last-mentioned
is happily uncommon, it is a thing that has happened more than once; and in very many cases
where the evil has fallen short of this ultimate possibility, the individual has nevertheless
lost much more of his lower Manas by this additional entanglement with Kâma than he would have
done if left to withdraw into himself quietly as nature intended. It is not denied that a certain
amount of good may occasionally be done to very degraded entities at spiritualistic circles;
but the intention of nature obviously is that such assistance should be given, as it frequently
is, by occult students who are able to visit the astral plane during earth-life, and have been
trained by competent teachers to deal by whatever methods may be most helpful with the various
cases which they encounter. It will be readily seen that such a scheme of help, carrying with
it as it does the possibility of instant reference to higher authorities in any doubtful case,
is infinitely safer than any casual assistance obtained through a medium who may be (and indeed
generally is) entirely ignorant of the laws governing spiritual evolution, and who is as liable
to the domination of evil or mischievous influences as of good ones.

Apart altogether from any question of development through a medium, there is another and much
more frequently exercised influence which may seriously retard a disembodied entity on his
way to Devachan, and that is the intense and uncontrolled grief of his surviving friends or
relatives. It is one among many melancholy results of the terribly inaccurate and even irreligious
view that we in the West have for centuries been taking of death, that we not only cause ourselves
an immense amount of wholly unnecessary pain over this temporary parting from our loved ones,
but we often also do serious injury to those for whom we bear so deep an affection by means
of this very regret which we feel so acutely. (Death and After, p. 32.) It would be well if
those whose loved ones have passed on before them would learn from these undoubted facts the
duty of restraining for the sake of those dear ones a grief which, however natural it may be,
is yet in its essence selfish. Not that occult teaching counsels forgetfulness of the dead--far
from it; but it does suggest that a man's affectionate remembrance of his departed friend is
a force which, if properly directed into the channel of earnest good wishes for his progress
towards Devachan and his quiet passage through Kâmaloka might be of real value to him, whereas
when wasted in mourning for him and longing to have him back again it is not only useless but
harmful. It is with a true instinct that the Hindu religion prescribes its Shrâddha ceremonies
and the Catholic Church its prayers for the dead.

It sometimes happens, however, that the desire for communication is from the other side, and
that an entity of the class we are considering has something which it specially desires to
say to those whom it has left behind. Occasionally this message is an important one, such as,
for example, an indication of the place where a missing will is concealed; but more often it
seems to us quite trivial. Still, whatever it may be, if it is firmly impressed upon the mind
of the dead person, it is undoubtedly desirable that he should be enabled to deliver it, as
otherwise the anxiety to do so would perpetually draw his consciousness back into the earth-life,
and prevent him from passing to higher spheres. In such a case a psychic who can understand
him, or a medium through whom he can write or speak, is of real service to him. It should be
observed that the reason why he cannot usually write or speak without a medium is that one
state of matter can ordinarily act only upon the state next below it, and, as he has now no
denser matter in his organism than that of which the Kâmarûpa is composed, he finds it impossible
to set up vibrations in the physical substance of the air or to move the physical pencil without
borrowing living matter of the intermediate order contained in the etheric double, by means
of which an impulse can readily be transferred from the one plane to the other. Now he would
be unable to borrow this material from an ordinary person, because such a man's principles
would be too closely linked together to be separated by any means likely to be at his command,
but the very essence of mediumship is the ready separability of the principles, so from a medium
he can draw without difficulty the matter he needs for his manifestation, whatever it may be.
When he cannot find a medium or does not understand how to use one he sometimes makes clumsy
and blundering endeavours to communicate on his own account, and by the strength of his will
he sets elemental forces blindly working, perhaps producing such apparently aimless manifestations
as stone-throwing, bell-ringing, etc. It consequently frequently happens that a psychic or
medium going to a house where such manifestations are taking place may be able to discover
what the entity who produces them is attempting to say or do, and may thus put an end to the
disturbance. This would not, however, invariably be the case, as these elemental forces are
occasionally set in motion by entirely different causes.

But for one entity who is earth-bound by the desire to communicate with his surviving friends,
there are thousands who, if left alone, would never think of doing so, although when the idea
is suggested to them through a medium they will respond to it readily enough, for since during
earth-life their interests were probably centred less in spiritual than in worldly affairs,
it is not difficult to re-awaken in them vibrations sympathetic to matters connected with the
existence they have so lately left; and this undesirable intensification of earthly thoughts
is frequently brought about by the interference of well-meaning but ignorant friends, who endeavour
to get communications from the departed through a medium, with the result that just in proportion
to their success he is subjected to the various dangers mentioned above. It should also be
remembered that the possible injury to the entity itself is by no means all the harm that may
accrue from such a practice, for those who habitually attend séances during life are almost
certain to develop a tendency to haunt them after death, and so themselves in turn run the
risks into which they have so often brought their predecessors. Besides, it is well known that
the vital energy necessary to produce physical manifestations is frequently drawn from the
sitters as well as from the medium, and the eventual effect on the latter is invariably evil,
as is evinced by the large number of such sensitives who have gone either morally or psychically
to the bad--some becoming epileptic, some taking to drink, others falling under influences
which induced them to stoop to fraud and trickery of all kinds.

4. The Shade.

When the separation of the principles is complete, the Kâmaloka life of the person is over,
and, as before stated, he passes into the devachanic condition. But just as when he dies to
this plane he leaves his physical body behind him, so when he dies to the astral plane he leaves
his Kâmarûpa behind him. If he has purged himself from all earthly desires during life, and
directed all his energies into the channels of unselfish spiritual aspiration, his higher Ego
will be able to draw back into itself the whole of the lower Manas which it put forth into
incarnation; in that case the Kâmarûpa left behind on the astral plane will be a mere corpse
like the abandoned physical body, and it will then come not into this class but into the next.
Even in the case of a man of somewhat less perfect life almost the same result may be attained
if the forces of lower desire are allowed to work themselves out undisturbed in Kâmaloka but
the majority of mankind make but very trifling and perfunctory efforts while on earth to rid
themselves of the less elevated impulses of their nature, and consequently doom themselves
not only to a greatly prolonged sojourn on the astral plane, but also to what cannot be described
otherwise than as a loss of a portion of the lower Manas. This is, no doubt, a very material
method of expressing the great mystery of the reflection of the higher Manas in the lower,
but since only those who have passed the portals of initiation can fully comprehend this, we
must content ourselves with the nearest approximation to exactitude which is possible to us;
and as a matter of fact, a very fairly accurate idea of what actually takes place will be obtained
by adopting the hypothesis that the mânasic principle sends down a portion of itself into the
lower world of physical life at each incarnation, and expects to be able to withdraw it again
at the end of the life, enriched by all its varied experiences. The ordinary man, however,
usually allows himself to be so pitiably enslaved by all sorts of base desires that a certain
portion of this lower Manas becomes very closely interwoven with Kâma, and when the separation
takes place, his life in Kâmaloka being over, the mânasic principle has, as it were, to be
torn apart, the degraded portion remaining within the Kâmarûpa.

This Kâmarûpa then consists of the particles of astral matter from which the lower Manas has
not been able to disengage itself, and which therefore retain it captive; for when Manas passes
into Devachan these clinging fragments adhere to a portion of it and as it were wrench it away.
The proportion of the matter of each level present in the Kâmarûpa will therefore depend on
the extent to which Manas has become inextricably entangled with the lower passions. It will
be obvious that as Manas in passing from level to level is unable to free itself completely
from the matter of each, the Kâmarûpa will show the presence of each grosser kind which has
succeeded in retaining its connection with it.

Thus comes into existence the class of entity which has been called "The Shade"--an entity,
be it observed, which is not in any sense the real individual at all (for he has passed away
into Devachan), but nevertheless, not only bears his exact personal appearance, but possesses
his memory and all his little idiosyncrasies, and may, therefore, very readily personate him,
as indeed it frequently does at séances. It is not, of course, conscious of any act of impersonation,
for as far as its intellect goes it must necessarily suppose itself to be the individual, but
one can imagine the horror and disgust of the friends of the departed, if they could only realize
that they had been deceived into accepting as their loved one a mere soulless bundle of all
his worst qualities. Its length of life varies according to the amount of the lower Manas which
animates it, but as this is all the while in process of fading out, its intellect is a steadily
diminishing quantity, though it may possess a great deal of a certain sort of animal cunning;
and even quite towards the end of its career it is still able to communicate by borrowing temporary
intelligence from the medium. From its very nature it is exceedingly liable to be swayed by
all kinds of evil influences, and, having separated from its higher Ego, it has nothing in
its constitution capable of responding to good ones. It therefore lends itself readily to various
minor purposes of some of the baser sort of black magicians. So much of the matter of the mânasic
nature as it possesses gradually disintegrates and returns to its own plane, though not to
any individual mind, and thus the shade fades by almost imperceptible gradations into a member
of our next class.

5. The Shell.

This is absolutely the mere astral corpse in process of disintegration, every particle of the
lower Manas having left it. It is entirely without any kind of consciousness or intelligence,
and is drifted passively about upon the astral currents just as a cloud might be swept in any
direction by a passing breeze; but even yet it may be galvanized for a few moments into a ghastly
burlesque of life if it happens to come within reach of a medium's aura. Under such circumstances
it will still exactly resemble its departed personality in appearance, and may even reproduce
to some extent his familiar expressions or handwriting, but it does so merely by the automatic
action of the cells of which it is composed, which tend under stimulation to repeat the form
of action to which they are most accustomed, and whatever amount of intelligence may lie behind
any such manifestation has most assuredly no connection with the original entity, but is lent
by the medium or his "guides" for the occasion. It is, however, more frequently temporarily
vitalized in quite another manner, which will be described under the next head. It has also
the quality of being still blindly responsive to such vibrations--usually of the lowest order--as
were frequently set up in it during its last stage of existence as a shade, and consequently
persons in whom evil desires or passions are predominant will be very likely, when they attend
physical séances, to find these intensified and as it were thrown back upon them by the unconscious
shells.

There is also another variety of corpse which it is necessary to mention under this head, though
it belongs to a much earlier stage of man's post-mortem history. It has been stated above that
after the death of the physical body the Kâmarûpa is comparatively quickly formed, and the
etheric double cast off--this latter body being destined to slow disintegration, precisely
as is the kâmarûpic shell at a later stage of the proceedings. This etheric shell, however,
is not to be met with drifting aimlessly about, as is the variety with which we have hitherto
been dealing; on the contrary, it remains within a few yards of the decaying physical body,
and since it is readily visible to any one even slightly sensitive, it is accountable for many
of the commonly current stories of churchyard ghosts. A psychically developed person passing
one of our great cemeteries will see hundreds of these bluish-white, misty forms hovering over
the graves where are laid the physical vestures which they have recently left; and as they,
like their lower counterparts, are in various stages of disintegration, the sight is by no
means a pleasant one. This also, like the other kind of shell, is entirely devoid of consciousness
and intelligence; and though it may under certain circumstances be galvanized into a very horrible
form of temporary life, this is possible only by means of some of the most loathsome rites
of one of the worst forms of black magic, about which the less said the better. It will thus
be seen that in the successive stages of his progress from earth-life to Devachan, man casts
off and leaves to slow disintegration no less than three corpses--the physical body, the etheric
double and the Kâmarûpa--all of which are by degrees resolved into their constituent elements
and utilized anew on their respective planes by the wonderful chemistry of nature.

6. The Vitalized Shell.

This entity ought not, strictly speaking, to be classified under the head "human" at all, since
it is only its outer vesture, the passive, senseless shell, that was once an appanage of humanity;
such life, intelligence, desire and will as it may possess are those of the artificial elemental
animating it, and that, though in terrible truth a creation of man's evil thought, is not itself
human. It will therefore perhaps be better to deal with it more fully under its appropriate
class among the artificial entities, as its nature and genesis will be more readily comprehensible
by the time that part of our subject is reached. Let it suffice here to mention that it is
always a malevolent being--a true tempting demon, whose evil influence is limited only by the
extent of its power. Like the shade, it is frequently used to further the horrible purposes
of the Voodoo and Obeah forms of magic. Some writers have spoken of it under the name "elementary,"
but as that title has at one time or other been used for almost every variety of post-mortem
entity, it has become so vague and meaningless that it is perhaps better to avoid it.

7. The Suicide, or victim of sudden death.

It will be readily understood that a man who is torn from physical life hurriedly while in
full health and strength, whether by accident or suicide, finds himself upon the astral plane
under conditions differing considerably from those which surround one who dies either from
old age or from disease. In the latter case the hold of earthly desires upon the entity is
more or less weakened, and probably the very grossest particles are already got rid of, so
that the Kâmarûpa will most likely form itself on the sixth or fifth subdivision of the Kâmaloka,
or perhaps even higher; the principles have been gradually prepared for separation, and the
shock is therefore not so great. In the case of the accidental death or suicide none of these
preparations have taken place, and the withdrawal of the principles from their physical encasement
has been very aptly compared to the tearing of the stone out of an unripe fruit; a great deal
of the grossest kind of astral matter still clings around the personality, which is consequently
held in the seventh or lowest subdivision of the Kâmaloka. This has already been described
as anything but a pleasant abiding-place, yet it is by no means the same for all those who
are compelled for a time to inhabit it. Those victims of sudden death whose earth-lives have
been pure and noble have no affinity for this plane, and the time of their sojourn upon it
is passed, to quote from an early Letter on this subject, either "in happy ignorance and full
oblivion, or in a state of quiet slumber, a sleep full of rosy dreams ". But on the other hand,
if their earth-lives have been low and brutal, selfish and sensual, they will, like the suicides,
be conscious to the fullest extent in this undesirable region; and they are liable to develop
into terribly evil entities. Inflamed with all kinds of horrible appetites which they can no
longer satisfy directly now they are without a physical body, they gratify their loathsome
passions vicariously through a medium or any sensitive person whom they can obsess; and they
take a devilish delight in using all the arts of delusion which the astral plane puts in their
power in order to lead others into the same excesses which have proved so fatal to themselves.
Quoting again from the same letter:--"These are the Pisâchas the incubi and succubæ of mediæval
writers--demons of thirst and gluttony, of lust and avarice, of intensified craft, wickedness
and cruelty, provoking their victims to horrible crimes, and revelling in their commission".
From this class and the last are drawn the tempters--the devils of ecclesiastical literature;
but their power fails utterly before purity of mind and purpose; they can do nothing with a
man unless he has first encouraged in himself the vices into which they seek to draw him.

One whose psychic sight has been opened will often see crowds of these unfortunate creatures
hanging round butchers' shops, public-houses, or other even more disreputable places--wherever
the gross influences in which they delight are to be found, and where they encounter men and
women still in the flesh who are like-minded with themselves. For such an entity as one of
these to meet with a medium with whom he is in affinity is indeed a terrible misfortune; not
only does it enable him to prolong enormously his dreadful life in Kâmaloka but it renews for
perhaps an indefinite period his power to generate evil Karma, and so prepare for himself a
future incarnation of the most degraded character, besides running the risk of losing a large
portion or even the whole of the lower Manas. On this lowest level of the astral plane he must
stay at least as long as his earthly life would have lasted if it had not been prematurely
cut short; and if he is fortunate enough not to meet with a sensitive through whom his passions
can be vicariously gratified, the unfulfilled desires will gradually burn themselves out, and
the suffering caused in the process will probably go far towards working off the evil Karma
of the past life.

The position of the suicide is further complicated by the fact that his rash act has enormously
diminished the power of the higher Ego to withdraw its lower portion into itself, and therefore
has exposed him to manifold and great additional dangers: but it must be remembered that the
guilt of suicide differs considerably according to its circumstances, from the morally blameless
act of Seneca or Socrates through all degrees down to the heinous crime of the wretch who takes
his own life in order to escape from the entanglements into which his villainy has brought
him, and of course the position after death varies accordingly.

It should be noted that this class, as well as the shades and the vitalized shells, are all
what may be called minor vampires; that is to say, whenever they have the opportunity they
prolong their existence by draining away the vitality from human beings whom they find themselves
able to influence. This is why both medium and sitters are often so weak and exhausted after
a physical séance. A student of occultism is taught how to guard himself from their attempts,
but without that knowledge it is difficult for one who puts himself in their way to avoid being
more or less laid under contribution by them.

8. The Vampire and Werewolf.

There remain two even more awful but happily very rare possibilities to be mentioned before
this part of our subject is completed, and though they differ very widely in many ways we may
yet perhaps group them together, since they have in common the qualities of unearthly horror
and of extreme rarity--the latter arising from the fact that they are really relics of earlier
races. We of the fifth root race ought to have evolved beyond the possibility of meeting such
a ghastly fate as is indicated by either of the two headings of this sub-section, and we have
so nearly done it that these creatures are commonly regarded as mere mediæval fables; yet there
are examples to be found occasionally even now, though chiefly in countries where there is
a considerable strain of fourth-race blood, such as Russia or Hungary. The popular legends
about them are probably often considerably exaggerated, but there is nevertheless a terribly
serious sub-stratum of truth beneath the eerie stories which pass from mouth to mouth among
the peasantry of Central Europe. The general characteristics of such tales are too well known
to need more than a passing reference; a fairly typical specimen of the vampire story, though
it does not profess to be more than the merest fiction, is Sheridan le Fanu's Carmilla, while
a very remarkable account of an unusual form of this creature is to be found in Isis Unveiled,
vol. i., p. 454. All readers of Theosophical literature are familiar with the idea that it
is possible for a man to live a life so absolutely degraded and selfish, so utterly wicked
and brutal, that the whole of his lower Manas may become entirely immeshed in Kâma, and finally
separated from its spiritual source in the higher Ego. Some students even seem to think that
such an occurrence is quite a common one, and that we may meet scores of such "soulless men,"
as they have been called, in the street every day of our lives, but this, happily, is untrue.
To attain the appalling preeminence in evil which thus involves the entire loss of a personality
and the weakening of the developing individuality behind, a man must stifle every gleam of
unselfishness or spirituality, and must have absolutely no redeeming point whatever; and when
we remember how often, even in the worst of villains, there is to be found something not wholly
bad, we shall realize that the abandoned personalities must always be a very small minority.
Still, comparatively few though they be, they do exist, and it is from their ranks that the
still rarer vampire is drawn. The lost entity would very soon after death find himself unable
to stay in Kâmaloka, and would be irresistibly drawn in full consciousness into "his own place,"
the mysterious eighth sphere, there slowly to disintegrate after experiences best left undescribed.
If, however, he perishes by suicide or sudden death, he may under certain circumstances, especially
if he knows something of black magic, hold himself back from that awful fate by a death in
life scarcely less awful--the ghastly existence of the vampire. Since the eighth sphere cannot
claim him until after the death of the body, he preserves it in a kind of cataleptic trance
by the horrible expedient of the transfusion into it of blood drawn from other human beings
by his semi-materialized Kâmarûpa, and thus postpones his final destiny by the commission of
wholesale murder. As popular "superstition" again quite rightly supposes, the easiest and most
effectual remedy in such a case is to exhume and burn the body, thus depriving the creature
of his point d'appui. When the grave is opened the body usually appears quite fresh and healthy,
and the coffin is not infrequently filled with blood. Of course in countries where cremation
is the custom vampirism of this sort is impossible.

The Werewolf, though equally horrible, is the product of a somewhat different Karma, and indeed
ought perhaps to have found a place under the first instead of the second division of the human
inhabitants of Kâmaloka, since it is always during a man's lifetime that he first manifests
under this form. It invariably implies some knowledge of magical arts--sufficient at any rate
to be able to project the astral body. When a perfectly cruel and brutal man does this, there
are certain circumstances under which the body may be seized upon by other astral entities
and materialized, not into the human form, but into that of some wild animal--usually the wolf;
and in that condition it will range the surrounding country killing other animals, and even
human beings, thus satisfying not only its own craving for blood, but that of the fiends who
drive it on. In this case, as so often with the ordinary astral body, any wound inflicted upon
the animal materialization will be reproduced upon the human physical body by the extraordinary
phenomenon of repercussion; though after the death of that physical body the Kâmarûpa, which
will probably continue to appear in the same form, will be less vulnerable. It will then, however,
he also less dangerous, as unless it can find a suitable medium it will be unable to materialize
fully.

It has been the fashion of this century to scoff at what are called the foolish superstitions
of the ignorant peasantry; but, as in the above cases, so in many others the occult student
finds on careful examination that obscure or forgotten truths of nature lie behind what at
first sight appears mere nonsense, and he learns to be cautious in rejecting as well as cautious
in accepting. Intending explorers of the astral plane need have little fear of encountering
the very unpleasant creatures described under this head, for, as before stated, they are even
now extremely rare, and as time goes on their number will happily steadily diminish. In any
case their manifestations are usually restricted to the immediate neighbourhood of their physical
bodies, as might be supposed from their extremely material nature.

9. The Black Magician or his pupil.

This person corresponds at the other extremity of the scale to our second class of departed
entities, the chela awaiting reincarnation, but in this case, instead of obtaining permission
to adopt an unusual method of progress, the man is defying the natural process of evolution
by maintaining himself in Kâmaloka by magical arts--sometimes of the most horrible nature.
It would be easy to make various subdivisions of this class, according to their objects, their
methods, and the possible duration of their existence on this plane, but as they are by no
means fascinating objects of study, and all that an occult student wishes to know about them
is how to avoid them, it will probably be more interesting to pass on to the examination of
another part of our subject. It may, however, be just mentioned that every such human entity
which prolongs its life thus on the astral plane beyond its natural limit invariably does so
at the expense of others, and by the absorption of their life in some form or another.

II. NON-HUMAN.

Though it might have been thought fairly obvious even to the most casual glance that many of
the terrestrial arrangements of nature which affect us most nearly have not been designed exclusively
with a view to our comfort or even our ultimate advantage, it was yet probably unavoidable
that the human race, at least in its childhood, should imagine that this world and everything
it contains existed solely for its own use and benefit. Undoubtedly we ought by this time to
have grown out of that infantile delusion and realized our proper position and the duties that
attach to it; that most of us have not yet done so is shown in a dozen ways in our daily life
notably by the atrocious cruelty habitually displayed towards the animal kingdom under the
name of sport by many who probably consider themselves highly civilized people. Of course the
veriest tyro in the holy science of occultism knows that all life is sacred, and that without
universal compassion there is no true progress; but it is only as he advances in his studies
that he discovers how manifold evolution is, and how comparatively small a place humanity really
fills in the economy of nature. It becomes clear to him that just as earth, air and water support
myriads of forms of life which, though invisible to the ordinary eye, are revealed to us by
the microscope, so the higher planes connected with our earth have an equally dense population
of whose existence we are ordinarily completely unconscious. As his knowledge increases he
becomes more and more certain that in one way or another the utmost use is being made of every
possibility of evolution, and that wherever it seems to us that in nature force or opportunity
is being wasted or neglected, it is not the scheme of the universe that is in fault, but our
ignorance of its method and intention.

For the purposes of our present consideration of the non-human inhabitants of the astral plane
it will be best to leave out of consideration those very early forms of the universal life
which are evolving, in a manner of which we can have little comprehension, through the successive
encasement of atoms, molecules and cells: for if we commence at the lowest of what are usually
called the elemental kingdoms, we shall even then have to group together under this general
heading an enormous number of inhabitants of the astral plane upon whom it will be possible
to touch only very slightly, as anything like a detailed account of them would swell this manual
to the dimensions of an encyclopædia.

The most convenient method of arranging the non-human entities will perhaps be in four classes
it being understood that in this case the class is not, as previously, a comparatively small
subdivision, but usually a great kingdom of nature at least as large and varied as, say, the
animal or vegetable kingdom. Some of these rank considerably below humanity, some are our equals,
and others again rise far above us in goodness and power. Some belong to our scheme of evolution--that
is to say, they either have been or will be men like ourselves; others are evolving on entirely
distinct lines of their own. Before proceeding to consider them it is necessary, in order to
avoid the charge of incompleteness, to mention that in this branch of the subject two reservations
have been made. First, no reference is made to the occasional appearances of very high Adepts
from other planets of the solar system and of even more august Visitors from a still greater
distance, since such matters cannot fitly be described in an essay for general reading; and
besides it is practically inconceivable, though of course theoretically possible, that such
glorified Beings should ever need to manifest Themselves on a plane so low as the astral. If
for any reason They should wish to do so, the body appropriate to the plane would be temporarily
created out of astral matter belonging to this planet, just as in the case of the Nirmânakâya.
Secondly, quite outside of and entirely unconnected with the four classes into which we are
dividing this section, there are two other great evolutions which at present share the use
of this planet with humanity; but about them it is forbidden to give any particulars at this
stage of the proceedings, as it is not apparently intended under ordinary circumstances either
that they should be conscious of man's existence or man of theirs. If we ever do come into
contact with them it will most probably be on the purely physical plane, for in any case their
connection with our astral plane is of the slightest, since the only possibility of their appearance
there depends upon an extremely improbable accident in an act of ceremonial magic, which fortunately
only a few of the most advanced sorcerers know how to perform. Nevertheless, that improbable
accident has happened at least once, and may happen again, so that but for the prohibition
above mentioned it would have been necessary to include them in our list.

1. The Elemental Essence belonging to our own evolution.

Just as the name "elementary" has been given indiscriminately by various writers to any or
all of man's possible post-mortem conditions, so this word "elemental" has been used at different
times to mean any or all non-human spirits, from the most godlike of the Devas down through
every variety of nature-spirit to the formless essence which pervades the kingdoms lying behind
the mineral, until after reading several books the student becomes absolutely bewildered by
the contradictory statements made on the subject. For the purposes of this treatise it will
perhaps simplify matters to restrict its meaning to the last-mentioned class only, and use
it to denote the three great kingdoms which precede the mineral in the order of our evolution.
It may be remembered that in one of the earlier letters from an Adept teacher these elemental
kingdoms are referred to, and the statement is made that the first and second cannot readily
be comprehended except by an Initiate. Fortunately this, the most incomprehensible part of
the vast subject, does not come within the province of this manual, as those first and second
elemental kingdoms exist and function respectively upon the arûpa and rûpa levels of the devachanic
plane. We have consequently to deal for the moment only with kingdom No. 3--the one next before
the mineral; though even that will be found quite sufficiently complicated, as will be understood
when it is stated that it contains just over two thousand four hundred perfectly distinct varieties
of elemental essence, each of which the pupil who wishes to attain perfect control of the astral
forces must learn not only to distinguish instantly at sight, but to deal with in its own special
method and no other. Of course phenomena of various sorts may be, and constantly are, produced
by those who are able to wield only one or two of these forces, but the Adept prefers to take
the additional trouble requisite to understand all of them thoroughly, and uses in every case
precisely the most appropriate force or combination of forces, so that his object may be attained
with scientific accuracy and with the least possible expenditure of energy.

To speak, as we so often do, of an elemental in connection with the group we are now considering
is somewhat misleading, for strictly speaking there is no such thing. What we find is a vast
store of elemental essence, wonderfully sensitive to the most fleeting human thought, responding
with inconceivable delicacy in an infinitesimal fraction of a second to a vibration set up
in it even by an entirely unconscious exercise of human will or desire. But the moment that
by the influence of such thought or exercise of will it is moulded into a living force--into
something that may correctly be described as an elemental--it at once ceases to belong to the
category we are discussing, and becomes a member of the artificial class. Even then its separate
existence is usually of the most evanescent character, and as soon as its impulse has worked
itself out it sinks back into the undifferentiated mass of that particular subdivision of elemental
essence from which it came. It would be tedious to attempt to catalogue these subdivisions,
and indeed even if a list of them were made it would be unintelligible except to the practical
student who can call them up before him and compare them. Some idea of the leading lines of
classification can, however, be grasped without much trouble, and may prove of interest. First
comes the broad division which has given the elementals their name--the classification according
to the kind of matter which they inhabit. Here, as usual, the septenary character of our evolution
shows itself, for there are seven such chief groups, related respectively to the seven states
of physical matter--to "earth, water, air and fire," or to translate from mediæval symbolism
to modern accuracy of expression, to the solid, liquid, gaseous and etheric conditions. It
has long been the custom to pity and despise the ignorance of the alchemists of the middle
ages, because they gave the title of "elements" to substances which modern chemistry has discovered
to be compounds; but in speaking of them thus slightingly we have done them great injustice,
for their knowledge on this subject was really wider, not narrower, than ours. They may or
may not have catalogued all the sixty or seventy substances which we now call elements; but
they certainly did not apply that name to them, for their occult studies had taught them that
in that sense of the word there was but one element, Âkâsha itself, of which these and all
other forms of matter were but modifications--a truth which some of the greatest chemists of
the present day are just beginning to suspect.

The fact is that in this particular case our despised forefathers' analysis went several steps
deeper than our own. They understood and were able to observe the ether, which modern science
can only postulate as a necessity for its theories; they were aware that it consists of physical
matter in four entirely distinct states above the gaseous--a fact which has not yet been re-discovered.
They knew that all physical objects consisted of matter in one or other of these seven states,
and that into the composition of every organic body all seven entered in a greater or lesser
degree; hence all their talk of fiery and watery humours, or "elements," which seems so grotesque
to us. It is obvious that they used the latter word simply as a synonym for "constituent parts,"
without in the least degree intending it to connote the idea of substances which could not
be further reduced. They knew also that each of these orders of matter served as an Upâdhi
or basis of manifestation for a great class of evolving monadic essence, and so they christened
the essence "elemental".

What we have to try to realize, then, is that in every particle of solid matter, so long as
it remains in that condition, there resides, to use the picturesque phraseology of mediæval
students, an earth elemental--that is, a certain amount of the living elemental essence appropriate
to it, while equally in every particle of matter in the liquid, gaseous, or etheric states,
the water, air, and fire "elementals" respectively inhere. It will be observed that this first
broad division of the third of the elemental kingdoms is, so to speak, a horizontal one--that
is to say, its respective classes stand in the relation of steps, each somewhat less material
than the one below it, which ascends into it by almost imperceptible degrees; and it is easy
to understand how each of these classes may again be divided horizontally into seven, since
there are obviously many degrees of density among solids, liquids and gases. There is, however,
what may be described as a perpendicular division also, and this is somewhat more difficult
to comprehend, especially as great reserve is always maintained by occultists as to some of
the facts which would be involved in a fuller explanation of it. Perhaps the clearest way to
put what it is permissible to say on the subject will be to state that in each of the horizontal
classes and subclasses will be found seven perfectly distinct types of elemental, the difference
between them being no longer a question of degree of materiality, but rather of character and
affinities. Each of these types so reacts upon the others that, though it is impossible for
them ever to interchange their essence, in each of them seven sub-types will be found to exist,
distinguished by the colouring given to their original peculiarity by the influence which sways
them most readily. It will at once be seen that this perpendicular division and subdivision
differs entirely in its character from the horizontal, in that it is far more permanent and
fundamental; for while it is the evolution of the elemental kingdom to pass with almost infinite
slowness through its various horizontal classes and subclasses in succession, and thus to belong
to them all in turn, this is not so with regard to the types and sub-types, which remain unchangeable
all the way through. A point which must never be lost sight of in endeavouring to understand
this elemental evolution is that it is taking place on what is sometimes called the downward
curve of the arc; that is to say, it is progressing towards the complete entanglement in matter
which we witness in the mineral kingdom, instead of away from it, as is most other evolution
of which we know anything; and this fact sometimes gives it a curiously inverted appearance
in our eyes until we thoroughly grasp its object.

In spite of these manifold subdivisions, there are certain properties which are possessed in
common by all varieties of this strange living essence; but even these are so entirely different
from any with which we are familiar on the physical plane that it is exceedingly difficult
to explain them to those who cannot themselves see it in action. Let it be premised, then,
that when any portion of this essence remains for a few moments entirely unaffected by any
outside influence (a condition, by the way, which is hardly ever realized) it is absolutely
without any definite form of its own, though even then its motion is rapid and ceaseless; but
on the slightest disturbance, set up perhaps by some passing thought-current, it flashes into
a bewildering confusion of restless, ever-changing shapes, which form, rush about, and disappear
with the rapidity of the bubbles on the surface of boiling water. These evanescent shapes,
though generally those of living creatures of some sort, human or otherwise, no more express
the existence of separate entities in the essence than do the equally changeful and multiform
waves raised in a few moments on a previously smooth lake by a sudden squall. They seem to
be mere reflections from the vast storehouse of the astral light, yet they have usually a certain
appropriateness to the character of the thought-stream which calls them into existence, though
nearly always with some grotesque distortion, some terrifying or unpleasant aspect about them.
A question naturally arises in the mind here as to what intelligence it is that is exerted
in the selection of an appropriate shape or its distortion when selected. We are not dealing
with the more powerful and longer-lived artificial elemental created by a strong definite thought,
but simply with the result produced by the stream of half-conscious, involuntary thoughts which
the majority of mankind allow to flow idly through their brains, so that the intelligence is
obviously not derived from the mind of the thinker; and we certainly cannot credit the elemental
essence itself, which belongs to a kingdom further from individualization even than the mineral,
with any sort of awakening of the mânasic quality. Yet it does possess a marvellous adaptability
which often seems to come very near it, and it is no doubt this property that caused elementals
to be described in one of our early books as "the semi-intelligent creatures of the astral
light". We shall find further evidence of this power when we come to consider the case of the
artificial class. When we read of a good or evil elemental, it must always be either an artificial
entity or one of the many varieties of nature spirits that is meant, for the elemental kingdoms
proper do not admit of any such conceptions as good and evil, though there is undoubtedly a
sort of bias or tendency permeating nearly all their subdivisions which operates to render
them rather hostile than friendly towards man, as every neophyte knows, for in most cases his
very first impression of the astral plane is of the presence all around him of vast hosts of
Protean spectres who advance upon him in threatening guise, but always retire or dissipate
harmlessly if boldly faced. It is to this curious tendency that the distorted or unpleasant
aspect above mentioned must be referred, and mediæval writers tell us that man has only himself
to thank for its existence. In the golden age before this Kaliyuga men were on the whole less
selfish and more spiritual, and then the "elementals" were friendly, though now they are no
longer so because of man's indifference to, and want of sympathy with, other living beings.
From the wonderful delicacy with which the essence responds to the faintest action of our minds
or desires it seems clear that this elemental kingdom as a whole is very much what the collective
thought of humanity makes it. Any one who will think for a moment how far from elevating the
action of that collective thought is likely to be at the present time will see little reason
to wonder that we reap as we have sown, and that this essence, which has no power of perception,
but only blindly receives and reflects what is projected upon it, should usually exhibit unfriendly
characteristics. There can be no doubt that in later races or rounds, when mankind as a whole
has evolved to a much higher level, the elemental kingdoms will be influenced by the changed
thought which continually impinges upon them, and we shall find them no longer hostile, but
docile and helpful, as we are told that the animal kingdom will also be. Whatever may have
happened in the past, it is evident that we may look forward to a very passable "golden age"
in the future, if we can arrive at a time when the majority of men will be noble and unselfish,
and the forces of nature will co-operate willingly with them.

The fact that we are so readily able to influence the elemental kingdoms at once shows us that
we have a responsibility towards them for the manner in which we use that influence; indeed,
when we consider the conditions under which they exist, it is obvious that the effect produced
upon them by the thoughts and desires of all intelligent creatures inhabiting the same world
with them must have been calculated upon in the scheme of our system as a factor in their evolution.
In spite of the consistent teaching of all the great religions, the mass of mankind is still
utterly regardless of its responsibility on the thought-plane; if a man can flatter himself
that his words and deeds have been harmless to others, he believes that he has done all that
can be required of him, quite oblivious of the fact that he may for years have been exercising
a narrowing and debasing influence on the minds of those about him, and filling surrounding
space with the unlovely creations of a sordid mind. A still more serious aspect of this question
will come before us when we discuss the artificial elemental; but in regard to the essence
it will be sufficient to state that we undoubtedly have the power to accelerate or delay its
evolution according to the use which consciously or unconsciously we are continually making of it.

It would be hopeless within the limits of such a treatise as this to attempt to explain the
different uses to which the forces inherent in the manifold varieties of this elemental essence
can be put by one who has been trained in their management. The vast majority of magical ceremonies
depend almost entirely upon its manipulation, either directly by the will of the magician,
or by some more definite astral entity evoked by him for that purpose. By its means nearly
all the physical phenomena of the séance-room are produced, and it is also the agent in most
cases of stone-throwing or bell-ringing in haunted houses, such results as these latter being
brought about either by blundering efforts to attract attention made by some earth-bound human
entity, or by the mere mischievous pranks of some of the minor nature-spirits belonging to
our third class. But the "elemental" must never be thought of as itself a prime mover; it is
simply a latent force, which needs an external power to set it in motion. It may be noted that
although all classes of the essence have the power of reflecting images from the astral light
as described above, there are varieties which receive certain impressions much more readily
than others--which have, as it were, favourite forms of their own into which upon disturbance
they would naturally flow unless absolutely forced into some other, and such shapes tend to
be a trifle less evanescent than usual.

Before leaving this branch of the subject it may be well to warn the student against the confusion
of thought into which some have fallen through failing to distinguish this elemental essence
which we have been considering from the monadic essence manifesting through the mineral kingdom.
It must be borne in mind that monadic essence at one stage of its evolution towards humanity
manifests through the elemental kingdom, while at a later stage it manifests through the mineral
kingdom: but the fact that two bodies of monadic essence at these different stages are in manifestation
at the same moment, and that one of these manifestations (the earth elemental) occupies the
same space as and inhabits the other (say a rock), in no way interferes with the evolution
either of one or the other, nor does it imply any relation between the bodies of monadic essence
lying within both. The rock will also be permeated by its appropriate variety of the omnipresent
Jîva or life principle, but that of course is again totally distinct from either of the essences
above mentioned.

2. The Kâmarûpas of Animals.

This is an extremely large class, yet it does not occupy a particularly important position
on the astral plane, since its members usually stay there but a very short time. The vast majority
of animals have not as yet acquired permanent individualization, and when one of them dies
the monadic essence which has been manifesting through it flows back again into the particular
stratum whence it came, bearing with it such advancement or experience as has been attained
during that life. It is not, however, able to do this quite immediately; the kâmic aura of
the animal forms itself into a Kâmarûpa, just as in man's case, and the animal has a real existence
on the astral plane, the length of which, though never great, varies according to the intelligence
which it has developed. In most cases it does not seem to be more than dreamily conscious,
but appears perfectly happy. The comparatively few domestic animals who have already attained
individuality, and will therefore be reborn no more as animals in this world, have a much longer
and much more vivid life in Kâmaloka than their less advanced fellows, and at the end of it
sink gradually into a subjective condition, which is likely to last for a very considerable
period. One interesting subdivision of this class consists of the Kâmarûpas of those anthropoid
apes mentioned in The Secret Doctrine (vol. i, p. 184) who are already individualized, and
will be ready to take human incarnation in the next round, or perhaps some of them even sooner.

3. Nature-Spirits of all Kinds.

So many and so varied are the subdivisions of this class that to do them anything like justice
one would need to devote a separate treatise to this subject alone. Some characteristics, however,
they all have in common, and it will be sufficient here to try to give some idea of those.
To begin with, we have to realize that we are here dealing with entities which differ radically
from all that we have hitherto considered. Though we may rightly classify the elemental essence
and the animal Kâmarûpa as non-human, the monadic essence which manifests itself through them
will, nevertheless, in the fulness of time, evolve to the level of manifesting itself through
some future humanity comparable to our own, and if we were able to look back through countless
ages on our own evolution in previous manvantaras, we should find that that which is now ourselves
has passed on its upward path through similar stages. That, however, is not the case with the
vast kingdom of nature-spirits; they neither have been, nor ever will be, members of a humanity
such as ours; their line of evolution is entirely different, and their only connection with
us consists in our temporary occupancy of the same planet. He looked narrowly at her and recognized
his eldest sister. They flew into each other's arms and lavished sweet kisses upon each other.

The
sister was the first to speak. "Come out upon the balcony with me, brother."

When they were upon the balcony the Prince asked his sister whom she had married, and she answered,
"I am married to the Emperor of the Dragons. My husband is himself a Dragon. So, brother, it
would be worth your while to hide, for my husband often says he would cut his brothers-in-law
in small bits if he ever laid eyes upon them. Let me first question him; if he promises to do
you no harm I will tell him of your arrival."

So said and so done. The sister concealed her brother and his horse. The evening drew on. The
Dragon's supper was ready; they were awaiting his arrival, when at last he came. When he flew
in the whole earth was bathed in blinding light; but he had hardly entered when he called to his
wife:

"Wife, I smell men's bones. Who is here? Tell me quick!"

"No one is here," she answered.

"That is not possible," said he.

Upon this the wife said, "I want to ask you a question, and do you answer me truly and honestly.
Would you do any harm to my brothers if they happened to come here?"

The Dragon-emperor answered, "I would have the eldest and the second killed and roasted, but I
would do nothing to the youngest."

Upon this she said, "My youngest brother, your brother-in-law, is arrived."

When the Dragon-emperor heard this he cried, "Out with him, then!" And when the sister brought
her brother from his hiding-place the Emperor ran to meet him and showered kisses upon him.

"Welcome
here, brother-in-law!"

"God be with you, sister's husband!"

"Where were you hiding?"

"Here I am!" And he told him the object of his journey, from beginning to end.

The Dragon-emperor said to him, "You are running the greatest risk, God help you! The day before
yesterday Steelpacha flew past with your wife. I was awaiting him with seven thousand dragons,
but we could not overcome him. I adjure you, let that fiend alone.
I will give you money to your heart's desire; just go quietly home."

But
the Prince would not hear a word of this advice, and emphatically
declared that he would continue his journey on the morrow. When the
Emperor saw that he could not prevent him, nor induce him to turn
back, he drew a feather out of his wing and gave it to his brother-in-law,
with these words:

"Give good heed to what I now tell you. Take this
feather of mine, and if you come across Steelpacha and find yourself
in great danger, then burn my feather; that very moment I will come
to your aid with the whole strength of my army."

The Prince concealed
the feather in a safe place and went his way. He travelled on and
on until he reached a second great city. Here again, as he was going
through the city, a woman called to him from a balcony.

"Ho, there,
you Prince, dismount from your horse and come into the court!"

The
Prince rode into the court. Behold, who comes to meet him? It is his
second sister! They rush into each other's arms and kiss each other
heartily. Then the sister led her brother into the castle.

When she
had put the horse into the stable she asked the object of his journey,
and he told her the whole story of his adventures, finally asking
her, "And whom have you married, dear sister?"

She answered, "I am
married to the Emperor of the Falcons. He will come home to-night.
But I must carefully conceal you, for he is furious against my brothers."
So saying, she concealed the Prince.

In a little while the Falcon-emperor
came home, and the whole city quaked with the tumult of his approach.
Supper was served at once, but not before he had cried to his wife,
"I smell men's flesh!" They are greatly assisted in their tricks by the wonderful
power which they possess of casting a glamour over those who yield themselves to their influence,
so that such victims for the time see and hear only what these fairies impress upon them, exactly
as the mesmerized subject sees, hears, feels and believes whatever the magnetizer wishes. The
nature-spirits, however, have not the mesmerizer's power of dominating the human will, except
in the case of quite unusually weak-minded people, or of those who allow themselves to fall
into such a condition of helpless terror that their will is temporarily in abeyance; they cannot
go beyond deception of the senses, but of that art they are undoubted masters, and cases are
not wanting in which they have cast their glamour over a considerable number of people at once.
It is by invoking their aid in the exercise of this peculiar power that some of the most wonderful
feats of the Indian jugglers are performed--the entire audience being in fact hallucinated
and made to imagine that they see and hear a whole series of events which have not really taken
place at all.

We might almost look upon the nature-spirits as a kind of astral humanity, but for the fact
that none of them--not even the highest possess a permanent reincarnating individuality. Apparently
therefore one point in which their line of evolution differs from ours is that a much greater
proportion of intelligence is developed before permanent individualization takes place; but
of the stages through which they have passed, and those through which they have yet to pass,
we can know little. The life-periods of the different subdivisions vary greatly, some being
quite short, others much longer than our human lifetime. We stand so entirely outside such
a life as theirs that it is impossible for us to understand much about its conditions; but
it appears on the whole to be a simple, joyous, irresponsible kind of existence, much such
as a party of happy children might lead among exceptionally favourable physical surroundings.
Though tricky and mischievous, they are rarely malicious unless provoked by some unwarrantable
intrusion or annoyance; but as a body they also partake to some extent of the universal feeling
of distrust for man, and they generally seem inclined to resent somewhat the first appearance
of a neophyte on the astral plane, so that he usually makes their acquaintance under some unpleasant
or terrifying form. If, however, he declines to be frightened by any of their freaks, they
soon accept him as a necessary evil and take no further notice of him, while some among them
may even after a time become friendly and manifest pleasure on meeting him.

Some among the many subdivisions of this class are much less childlike and more dignified than
those we have been describing, and it is from these sections that the entities who have sometimes
been reverenced under the name of wood-gods, or local village-gods, have been drawn. Such entities
would be quite sensible of the flattery involved in the reverence shown to them, would enjoy
it, and would no doubt be quite ready to do any small service they could in return. (The village-god
is also often an artificial entity, but that variety will be considered in its appropriate
place.) The Adept knows how to make use of the services of the nature-spirits when he requires
them, but the ordinary magician can obtain their assistance only by processes either of invocation
or evocation--that is, either by attracting their attention as a suppliant and making some
kind of bargain with them, or by endeavouring to set in motion influences which would compel
their obedience. Both methods are extremely undesirable, and the latter is also excessively
dangerous, as the operator would arouse a determined hostility which might prove fatal to him.
Needless to say, no one studying occultism under a qualified Master would ever be permitted
to attempt anything of the kind at all.

4. The Devas.

The highest system of evolution connected with this earth, so far as we know, is that of the
beings whom Hindus call the Devas, and who have elsewhere been spoken of as angels, sons of
God, etc. They may, in fact, be regarded as a kingdom lying next above humanity, in the same
way as humanity in turn lies next above the animal kingdom, but with this important difference,
that while for an animal there is no possibility of evolution through any kingdom but the human,
man, when he attains a certain high level, finds various paths of advancement opening before
him, of which this great Deva evolution is only one. In comparison with the sublime renunciation
of the Nirmânakâya, the acceptance of this line of evolution is sometimes spoken of in the
books as "yielding to the temptation to become a god," but it must not be inferred from this
expression that any shadow of blame attaches to the man who makes this choice. The path he
selects is not the shortest, but it is nevertheless a very noble one, and if his developed
intuition impels him towards it, it is probably the one best suited for his capacities. We
must never forget that in spiritual as in physical climbing it is not every one who can bear
the strain of the steeper path; there may be many for whom what seems the slower way is the
only one possible, and we should indeed be unworthy followers of the great Teachers if we allowed
our ignorance to betray us into the slightest thought of despisal towards those whose choice
differs from our own. However confident that ignorance of the difficulties of the future may
allow us to feel now, it is impossible for us to tell at this stage what we shall find ourselves
able to do when, after many lives of patient striving, we have earned the right to choose our
own future; and indeed, even those who "yield to the temptation to become gods," have a sufficiently
glorious career before them, as will presently be seen. To avoid possible misunderstanding
it may be mentioned par parenthèse that there is another and entirely evil sense sometimes
attached in the books to this phrase of "becoming a god," but in that form it certainly could
never be any kind of "temptation" to the developed man, and in any case it is altogether foreign
to our present subject.

In oriental literature this word "Deva" is frequently used vaguely to mean almost any kind
of non-human entity, so that it would often include DHYÂN CHOHANS on the one hand and nature-spirits
and artificial elementals on the other. Here, however, its use will be restricted to the magnificent
evolution which we are now considering. Though connected with this earth, the Devas are by
no means confined to it, for the whole of our present chain of seven worlds is as one world
to them, their evolution being through a grand system of seven chains. Their hosts have hitherto
been recruited chiefly from other humanities in the solar system, some lower and some higher
than ours, since but a very small portion of our own has as yet reached the level at which
for us it is possible to join them; but it seems certain that some of their very numerous classes
have not passed in their upward progress through any humanity at all comparable to ours. It
is not possible for us at present to understand very much about them, but it is clear that
what may be described as the aim of their evolution is considerably higher than ours; that
is to say, while the object of our human evolution is to raise the successful portion of humanity
to a certain degree of occult development by the end of the seventh round, the object of the
Deva evolution is to raise their foremost rank to a very much higher level in the corresponding
period. For them, as for us, a steeper but shorter path to still more sublime heights lies
open to earnest endeavour; but what those heights may be in their case we can only conjecture.

It is of course only the lower fringe of this august body that need be mentioned in connection
with our subject of the astral plane. Their three lower great divisions (beginning from the
bottom) are generally called Kâmadevas, Rûpadevas, and Arûpadevas respectively. Just as our
ordinary body here--the lowest body possible for us--is the physical, so the ordinary body
of a Kâmadeva is the astral; so that he stands in somewhat the same position as humanity will
do when it reaches planet F, and he, living ordinarily in an astral body, would go out of it
to higher spheres in a Mâyâvirûpa just as we might in an astral body, while to enter the Kârana
Sharîra would be to him (when sufficiently developed) no greater effort than to form a Mâyâvirûpa
is to us. In the same way the Rûpadeva's ordinary body would be the Mâyâvirûpa, since his habitat
is on the four lower or rûpa levels of that spiritual state which we usually call Devachan:
while the Arûpadeva belongs to the three higher levels of that plane, and owns no nearer approach
to a body than the Kârana Sharîra. But for Rûpa and Arûpadevas to manifest on the astral plane
is an occurrence at least as rare as it is for astral entities to materialize on this physical
plane, so we need do no more than mention them now. As regards the lowest division--the Kâmadevas--it
would be quite a mistake to think of all of them as immeasurably superior to ourselves, since
some have entered their ranks from a humanity in some respects less advanced than our own;
of course the general average among them is much higher than among us, for all that is actively
or wilfully evil has long been weeded out from their ranks; but they differ widely in disposition,
and a really noble, unselfish, spiritually-minded man may well stand higher in the scale of
evolution than some of them. Their attention can be attracted by certain magical evocations,
but the only human will which can dominate theirs is that of a certain high class of Adepts.
As a rule they seem scarcely conscious of us on our physical plane, but it does now and then
happen that one of them becomes aware of some human difficulty which excites his pity, and
he perhaps renders some assistance, just as any of us would try to help an animal that we saw
in trouble. But it is well understood among them that any interference in human affairs at
the present stage is likely to do far more harm than good. Above the Arûpadevas there are four
other great divisions, and again, above and beyond the Deva kingdom altogether, stand the great
hosts of the DHYÂN CHOHANS, but the consideration of such glorified Beings would be out of
place in an essay on the astral plane.

Though we cannot claim them as belonging exactly to any of our classes, this is perhaps the
best place in which to mention those wonderful and important Beings, the four Devarâjahs. In
this name the word Deva must not, however, be taken in the sense in which we have been using
it, for it is not over the Deva kingdom but over the four "elements" of earth, water, air,
and fire, with their indwelling nature-spirits and essences, that these four Kings rule. What
the evolution has been through which they rose to their present height of power and wisdom
we cannot tell, save only that it has certainly not passed through anything corresponding to
our own humanity. They are often spoken of as the Regents of the Earth, or Angels of the four
cardinal points, and the Hindu books call them the Chatur Mahârâjahs, giving their names as
Dhritarashtra, Virudhaka, Virupaksha, and Vaishravana. In the same books their hosts are called
Gandharvas, Kumbhandas, Nâgas, and Yakshas respectively, the points of the compass appropriated
to each being in corresponding order east, south, west, and north, and their symbolical colours
white, blue, red, and gold. They are mentioned in The Secret Doctrine as "winged globes and
fiery wheels"; and in the Christian bible Ezekiel makes a very remarkable attempt at a description
of them in which very similar words are used. References to them are to be found in the symbology
of every religion, and they have always been held in the highest reverence as the protectors
of mankind. It is they who are the agents of man's Karma during his life on earth, and they
thus play an extremely important part in human destiny. The LIPIKA the great karmic deities
of the Kosmos, weigh the deeds of each personality when the final separation of its principles
takes place in Kâmaloka and give as it were the mould of an etheric double exactly suitable
to its Karma for the man's next birth; but it is the Devarâjahs who, having command of the
"elements" of which that etheric double must be composed, arrange their proportion so as to
fulfil accurately the intention of the LIPIKA. It is they also who constantly watch all through
life to counterbalance the changes perpetually being introduced into man's condition by his
own free will and that of those around him, so that no injustice may be done, and Karma may
be accurately worked out, if not in one way then in another. A learned dissertation upon these
marvellous beings will be found in The Secret Doctrine, vol. i., pp. 122-126. They are able
to take human material forms at will, and several cases are recorded when they have done so.
All the higher nature-spirits and hosts of artificial elementals act as their agents in the
stupendous work they carry out, yet all the threads are in their hands, and the whole responsibility
rests upon them alone. It is not often that they manifest upon the astral plane, but when they
do they are certainly the most remarkable of its non-human inhabitants. A student of occultism
will not need to be told that as there are seven great classes both of nature-spirits and elemental
essence there must really be seven and not four Devarâjahs but outside the circle of initiation
little is known and less may be said of the higher three.

III. ARTIFICIAL.

This, the largest class of astral entities, is also much the most important to man. Being entirely
his own creation, it is inter-related with him by the closest karmic bonds, and its action
upon him is direct and incessant. It is an enormous inchoate mass of semi-intelligent entities,
differing among themselves as human thoughts differ, and practically incapable of anything
like classification or arrangement. The only division which can be usefully made is that which
distinguishes between the artificial elementals made by the majority of mankind unconsciously,
and those made by magicians with definite intent; while we may relegate to a third class the
very small number of artificially arranged entities which are not elementals at all.

1. Elementals formed unconsciously.

It has already been explained that the elemental essence which surrounds us on every side is
in all its numberless varieties singularly susceptible to the influence of human thought. Most
people's thoughts are so fleeting and indecisive that the elementals created by them last only
a few minutes or a few hours, but an often-repeated thought or an earnest wish will form an
elemental whose existence may extend to many days. Since the ordinary man's thoughts refer
very largely to himself, the elementals they form remain hovering about him, and constantly
tend to provoke a repetition of the idea they represent, since such repetitions, instead of
forming new elementals, would strengthen the old one, and give it a fresh lease of life. A
man, therefore, who frequently dwells upon one wish often forms for himself an astral attendant
which, constantly fed by fresh thought, may haunt him for years, ever gaining more and more
strength and influence over him; and it will easily be seen that if the desire be an evil one
the effect upon his moral nature may be of the most disastrous character. If the wish be merely
an indefinite one for his general good, the elemental essence in its wonderful plasticity will
respond exactly to that less distinct idea also, and the creature formed will expend its force
in the direction of whatever action for the man's advantage comes most readily to hand. Of
course in all cases the amount of such force it has to expend, and the length of time that
it will live to expend it, depend entirely upon the strength of the original wish or thought
which gave it birth; though it must be remembered that it can be, as it were, fed and strengthened,
and its life-period protracted by other good wishes or friendly thoughts projected in the same
direction.

Furthermore, it appears to be actuated, like most other beings, by an instinctive desire to
prolong its life, and thus reacts on its creator as a force constantly tending to provoke the
renewal of the feeling which called it into existence. It also influences in a similar manner
others with whom it comes into contact, though its rapport with them is naturally not so perfect.

All that has been said as to the effect of good wishes and friendly thoughts is also true in
the opposite direction of evil wishes and angry thoughts; and considering the amount of envy,
hatred, malice and all uncharitableness that exists in the world, it will be readily understood
that among the artificial elementals many terrible creatures are to be seen. A man whose thoughts
or desires are spiteful, brutal, sensual, avaricious, moves through the world carrying with
him everywhere a pestiferous atmosphere of his own, peopled with the loathsome beings he has
created to be his companions, and thus is not only in sadly evil case himself, but is a dangerous
nuisance to his fellow-men, subjecting all who have the misfortune to come into contact with
him to the risk of moral contagion from the influence of the abominations with which he chooses
to surround himself. A feeling of envious or jealous hatred towards another person will send
an evil elemental to hover over him and seek for a weak point through which it can operate;
and if the feeling be a persistent one, such a creature may be continually nourished by it
and thereby enabled to protract its undesirable activity for a very long period. It can, however,
produce no effect upon the person towards whom it is directed unless he has himself some tendency
which it can foster--some fulcrum for its lever, as it were; from the aura of a man of pure
thought and good life all such influences at once rebound, finding nothing upon which they
can fasten, and in that case, by a very curious law, they react in all their force upon their
original creator. In him by the hypothesis they find a very congenial sphere of action, and
thus the Karma of his evil wish works itself out at once by means of the very entity which
he himself has called into existence. It occasionally happens, however, that an artificial
elemental of this description is for various reasons unable to expend its force either upon
its object or its creator, and in such cases it becomes a kind of wandering demon, readily
attracted by any person who indulges feelings similar to that which gave it birth, and equally
prepared either to stimulate such feelings in him for the sake of the strength it may gain
from them, or to pour out its store of evil influence upon him through any opening which he
may offer it. If it is sufficiently powerful to seize upon and inhabit some passing shell it
frequently does so, as the possession of such a temporary home enables it to husband its dreadful
resources more carefully. In this form it may manifest through a medium, and by masquerading
as some well-known friend may sometimes obtain an influence over people upon whom it would
otherwise have little hold.

What has been written above will serve to enforce the statement already made as to the importance
of maintaining a strict control over our thoughts. Many a well-meaning man, who is scrupulously
careful to do his duty towards his neighbour in word and deed, is apt to consider that his
thoughts at least are nobody's business but his own, and so lets them run riot in various directions,
utterly unconscious of the swarms of baleful creatures he is launching upon the world. To such
a man an accurate comprehension of the effect of thought and desire in producing artificial
elementals would come as a horrifying revelation; on the other hand, it would be the greatest
consolation to many devoted and grateful souls who are oppressed with the feeling that they
are unable to do anything in return for the kindness lavished upon them by their benefactors.
For friendly thoughts and earnest good wishes are as easily and as effectually formulated by
the poorest as by the richest, and it is within the power of almost any man, if he will take
the trouble, to maintain what is practically a good angel always at the side of the brother
or sister, the friend or the child whom he loves best, no matter in what part of the world
he may be. Many a time a mother's loving thoughts and prayers have formed themselves into an
angel guardian for the child, and except in the almost impossible case that the child had in
him no instinct responsive to a good influence, have undoubtedly given him assistance and protection.
Such guardians may often be seen by clairvoyant vision, and there have even been cases where
one of them has had sufficient strength to materialize and become for the moment visible to
physical sight. A curious fact which deserves mention here is that even after the passage of
the mother into the devachanic condition the love which she pours out upon the children she
thinks of as surrounding her will react upon the real children still living in this world,
and will often support the guardian elemental which she created while on earth, until her dear
ones themselves pass away in turn. (Key to Theosophy, p. 150). All the stories of the intervention
of guardian angels must not, however, be attributed to the action of artificial elementals,
for in many cases such "angels" have been the souls of either living or recently departed human
beings, and they have also occasionally, though rarely, been Devas.

This power of an earnest desire, especially if frequently repeated, to create an active elemental
which ever presses forcefully in the direction of its own fulfilment, is the scientific explanation
of what devout but unphilosophical people describe as answers to prayer. There are occasions,
though at present these are rare, when the Karma of the person so praying is such as to permit
of assistance being directly rendered to him by an Adept or his pupil, and there is also the
still rarer possibility of the intervention of a Deva or some friendly nature-spirit; but in
all these cases the easiest and most obvious form for such assistance to take would be the
strengthening and the intelligent direction of the elemental already formed by the wish.

A very curious and instructive instance of the extreme persistence of these artificial elementals
under favourable circumstances came under the notice of one of our investigators quite recently.
All readers of the literature of such subjects are aware that many of our ancient families
are supposed to have associated with them a traditional death-warning--a phenomenon of one
kind or another which foretells, usually some days beforehand, the approaching decease of the
head of the house. A picturesque example of this is the well-known story of the white bird
of the Oxenhams, whose appearance has ever since the time of Queen Elizabeth been recognized
as a sure presage of the death of some member of the family; while another is the spectral
coach which is reported to drive up to the door of a certain castle in the north when a similar
calamity is impending. A phenomenon of this order occurs in connection with the family of one
of our members, but it is of a much commoner and less striking type than either of the above,
consisting only of a solemn and impressive strain of dirge-like music, which is heard apparently
floating in the air three days before the death takes place. Our member, having himself twice
heard this mystic sound, finding its warning in both cases quite accurate, and knowing also
that according to family tradition the same thing had been happening for several centuries,
set himself to seek by occult methods for the cause underlying so strange a phenomenon. The
result was unexpected but interesting. It appeared that somewhere in the twelfth century the
head of the family went to the crusades, like many another valiant man, and took with him to
win his spurs in the sacred cause his youngest and favourite son, a promising youth whose success
in life was the dearest wish of his father's heart. Unhappily, however, the young man was killed
in battle, and the father was plunged into the depths of despair, lamenting not only the loss
of his son, but still more the fact that he was cut off so suddenly in the full flush of careless
and not altogether blameless youth. So poignant, indeed, were the old man's feelings that he
cast off his knightly armour and joined one of the great monastic orders, vowing to devote
all the remainder of his life to prayer, first for the soul of his son, and secondly that henceforward
no descendant of his might ever again encounter what seemed to his simple and pious mind the
terrible danger of meeting death unprepared. Day after day for many a year he poured all the
energy of his soul into the channel of that one intense wish, firmly believing that somehow
or other the result he so earnestly desired would be brought about. A student of occultism
will have little difficulty in deciding what would be the effect of such a definite and long-continued
stream of thought; our knightly monk created an artificial elemental of immense power and resourcefulness
for its own particular object, and accumulated within it a store of force which would enable
it to carry out his wishes for an indefinite period. An elemental is a perfect storage-battery--one
from which there is practically no leakage; and when we remember what its original strength
must have been, and how comparatively rarely it would be called upon to put it forth, we shall
scarcely wonder that even now it exhibits unimpaired vitality, and still warns the direct descendants
of the old crusader of their approaching doom by repeating in their ears the strange wailing
music which was the dirge of a young and valiant soldier seven hundred years ago in Palestine.

2. Elementals formed consciously.

Since such results as have been described above have been achieved by the thought-force of
men who were entirely in the dark as to what they were doing, it will readily be imagined that
a magician who understands the subject, and can see exactly what effect he is producing, may
wield immense power along these lines. As a matter of fact occultists of both the white and
dark schools frequently use artificial elementals in their work, and few tasks are beyond the
powers of such creatures when scientifically prepared and directed with knowledge and skill;
for one who knows how to do so can maintain a connection with his elemental and guide it, no
matter at what distance it may be working, so that it will practically act as though endowed
with the full intelligence of its master. Very definite and very efficient guardian angels
have sometimes been supplied in this way, though it is probably very rarely that Karma permits
such a decided interference in a person's life as that would be. In such a case, however, as
that of a pupil of the Adepts, who might have in the course of his work for them to run the
risk of attack from forces with which his unaided strength would be entirely insufficient to
cope, guardians of this description have been given, and have fully proved their sleepless
vigilance and their tremendous power. By some of the more advanced processes of black magic,
also, artificial elementals of great power may be called into existence, and much evil has
been worked in various ways by such entities. But it is true of them, as of the previous class,
that if they are aimed at a person whom by reason of his purity of character they are unable
to influence they react with terrible force upon their creator; so that the mediæval story
of the magician being torn to pieces by the fiends he himself had raised is no mere fable,
but may well have an awful foundation in fact.

Such creatures occasionally, for various reasons, escape from the control of those who are
trying to make use of them, and become wandering and aimless demons, as do some of those mentioned
under the previous heading under similar circumstances; but those that we are considering,
having much more intelligence and power, and a much longer existence, are proportionately more
dangerous. They invariably seek for means of prolonging their life either by feeding like vampires
upon the vitality of human beings, or by influencing them to make offerings to them; and among
simple half-savage tribes they have frequently succeeded by judicious management in getting
themselves recognized as village or family gods. First, the petals fall off, and the calyx closes
over the young fruit; immediately the receptacle on which the carpels grow begins to swell,
and soon after the carpels themselves increase in size, and become shining, whilst their styles
begin to shrivel. The receptacle increases in size so much more and faster than the carpels,
which soon cease to enlarge at all, that they speedily begin to be separated by it, and the surface
of the receptacle to become apparent. In a little time, the carpels are completely scattered
in an irregular manner over the surface of the receptacle, which has become soft and juicy,
and has all along been pushing aside the calyx, which finally falls back almost out of sight. The
receptacle finally assumes a crimson colour, grows faster and faster, and becomes sweet and
fragrant. Those which we commonly call the seeds of the strawberry, then lie on the surface,
and these, if carefully examined, will prove to be the carpels containing the seeds in a little
thin shell like a small nut. The strawberry is, therefore, not, properly speaking, a fruit; it
is a fleshy receptacle, bearing the fruit on it, which fruit is, in fact, the ripe carpels.
Now this structure is, as I have said, common to all strawberries, each variety having, however,
its own peculiarities of growth and appearance.

There are but nine distinct species of the tribe Fragaria: one native in Germany, where it is
called Erdbeere; two in North, and one in South America; one in Surinam; and one in India; the
remaining three being indigenous in Britain, where, besides these three wild species, there are
at least sixty mongrel varieties, the results of cultivation; some of which, recently produced
from seed, are of great excellence. The finest of these native British species is the wood-strawberry
(Fragaria vesca), which is common everywhere; the second, the hautboy (F. elatior), is much less frequently
found, and is by Hooker supposed to be scarcely indigenous; and the third, the one-leaved strawberry
(F. monophylla), is unknown to me, and only named by some writers as a species. The common wood-strawberry
bears leaves smaller, more sharply notched, and more wrinkled in appearance, than any of the
cultivated species. The earliest formed are closely covered, as is the stem, with white silvery
hairs, and the leaves turn red early in the autumn, or in dry weather. The blossoms appear very
early in the spring, throwing up their delicate white petals on every
bank and hedgerow, among the clusters of violets and primroses, and
even not unfrequently before these sweet harbingers of spring venture
to unfold and give promise of abundant fruit.

 It seems doubtful whether it should appear
under the first or third of our main divisions; but, though certainly human, it is so far removed
from the course of ordinary evolution, so entirely the product of a will outside of its own,
that it perhaps falls most naturally into place among the artificial beings. The easiest way
of describing it will be to commence with its history, and to do that we must once more look
back to the great Atlantean race. In thinking of the Adepts and schools of occultism of that
remarkable people our minds instinctively revert to the evil practices of which we hear so
much in connection with their latter days; but we must not forget that before that age of selfishness
and degradation the mighty civilization of Atlantis had brought forth much that was noble and
worthy of admiration, and that among its leaders were some who now stand upon the loftiest
pinnacles as yet attained by man. Among the lodges for occult study preliminary to initiation
formed by the Adepts of the good Law was one in a certain part of America which was then tributary
to one of the great Atlantean monarchs--"the Divine Rulers of the Golden Gate"; and though
it has passed through many and strange vicissitudes, though it has had to move its headquarters
from country to country as each in turn was invaded by the jarring elements of a later civilization,
that lodge still exists even at the present day, observing still the same old-world ritual
even teaching as a sacred and hidden language the same Atlantean tongue which was used at its
foundation so many thousands of years ago. It still remains what it was from the first--a lodge
of occultists of pure and philanthropic aims, which can lead those students whom it finds worthy
no inconsiderable distance on the road to knowledge, and confers such psychic powers as are
in its gift only after the most searching tests as to the fitness of the candidate. Its teachers
do not stand upon the Adept level, yet hundreds have learnt through it how to set their feet
upon the Path which has led them to Adeptship in later lives; and though it is not in direct
communication with the Brotherhood of the Himalayas, there are some among the latter who have
themselves been connected with it in former incarnations, and therefore retain a more than
ordinarily friendly interest in its proceedings.

The chiefs of this lodge, though they have always kept themselves and their society strictly
in the background, have nevertheless done what they could from time to time to assist the progress
of truth in the world, and some half-century ago, in despair at the rampant materialism which
seemed to be stifling all spirituality in Europe and America, they determined to make an attempt
to combat it by somewhat novel methods--in point of fact to offer opportunities by which any
reasonable man could acquire absolute proof of that life apart from the physical body which
it was the tendency of science to deny. The phenomena exhibited were not in themselves absolutely
new, since in some form or other we may hear of them all through history; but their definite
organization--their production as it were to order--these were features distinctly new to the
modern world. The movement they thus set on foot gradually grew into the vast fabric of modern
spiritualism, and though it would perhaps be unfair to hold the originators of the scheme directly
responsible for many of the results which have followed, we must admit that they have achieved
their purpose to the extent of converting vast numbers of people from a belief in nothing in
particular to a firm faith in at any rate some kind of future life. This is undoubtedly a magnificent
result, though, in the opinion of many of those whose power and knowledge enable them to take
a wider view of such matters than we can, it has been attained at too great a cost, since it
seems to them that on the whole the harm done outweighs the good. The method adopted was to
take some ordinary person after death, arouse him thoroughly upon the astral plane, instruct
him to a certain extent in the powers and possibilities belonging to it, and then put him in
charge of a spiritualistic circle. He in his turn "developed" other departed personalities
along the same line, they all acted upon those who sat at their séances, and "developed" them
as mediums; and so spiritualism grew and flourished. No doubt living members of the original
lodge occasionally manifested themselves in astral form at some of the circles--perhaps they
may do so even now; but in most cases they simply gave such direction and guidance as they
considered necessary to the persons they had put in charge. There is little doubt that the
movement increased so much more rapidly than they had expected that it soon got quite beyond
their control, so that, as has been said, for many of the later developments they can only
be held indirectly responsible.

Of course the intensification of the astral-plane life in those persons who were thus put in
charge of circles distinctly delayed their natural progress; and though the idea had been that
anything lost in this way would be fully atoned for by the good Karma gained by helping to
lead others to the truth, it was soon found that it was impossible to make use of a "spirit-guide"
for any length of time without doing him serious and permanent injury. In some cases such "guides"
were therefore withdrawn, and others substituted for them; in others it was considered for
various reasons undesirable to make such a change, and then a very remarkable expedient was
adopted which gave rise to the curious class of creatures we have called "human artificials".
The higher principles of the original "guide" were allowed to pass on their long delayed evolution
into the devachanic condition, but the shade he left behind him was taken possession of, sustained,
and operated upon so that it might appear to its admiring circle practically just as before.
This seems at first to have been done by members of the lodge themselves, but apparently that
arrangement was found irksome or unsuitable, or perhaps was considered a waste of force, and
the same objection applied to the use for this purpose of an artificial elemental; so it was
eventually decided that the departed person who would have been appointed to succeed the late
"spirit-guide" should still do so, but should take possession of the latter's shade or shell,
and in fact simply wear his appearance. It is said that some members of the lodge objected
to this on the ground that though the purpose might be entirely good a certain amount of deception
was involved; but the general opinion seems to have been that as the shade really was the same,
and contained something at any rate of the original lower Manas, there was nothing that could
be called deception in the matter. This, then, was the genesis of the human artificial entity,
and it is understood that in some cases more than one such change has been made without arousing
suspicion, though on the other hand some investigators of spiritualism have remarked on the
fact that after a considerable lapse of time certain differences suddenly became observable
in the manner and disposition of a "spirit". It is needless to say that none of the Adept Brotherhood
has ever approved of the formation of an artificial entity of this sort, though they could
not interfere with any one who thought it right to take such a course. A weak point in the
arrangement is that many others besides the original lodge may adopt this plan, and there is
nothing whatever to prevent black magicians from supplying communicating "spirits"--as, indeed,
they have been known to do.

With this class we conclude our survey of the inhabitants of the astral plane. With the reservations
specially made some few pages back, the catalogue may be taken as a fairly complete one; but
it must once more be emphasized that this treatise claims only to sketch the merest outline
of a very vast subject, the detailed elaboration of which would need a lifetime of study and
hard work.

PHENOMENA.

Though in the course of this paper various superphysical phenomena have been mentioned and
to some extent explained, it will perhaps before concluding be desirable so far to recapitulate
as to give a list of those which are most frequently met with by the student of these subjects,
and to show by which of the agencies we have attempted to describe they are usually caused.
The resources of the astral world, however, are so varied that almost any phenomenon with which
we are acquainted can be produced in several different ways, so that it is only possible to
lay down general rules in the matter.

Apparitions or ghosts furnish a very good instance of the remark just made, for in the loose
manner in which the words are ordinarily used they may stand for almost any inhabitant of the
astral plane. Of course psychically developed people are constantly seeing such things, but
for an ordinary person to "see a ghost," as the common expression runs, one of two things must
happen: either that ghost must materialize, or that person must have a temporary flash of psychic
perception. But for the fact that neither of these events is a common one, ghosts would be
met with in our streets as frequently as living people.

[Sidenote: Churchyard Ghosts.]

If the ghost is seen hovering about a grave it is probably the etheric shell of a newly-buried
person, though it may be the astral body of a living man haunting in sleep the tomb of a friend;
or again, it may be a materialized thought-form--that is, an artificial elemental created by
the energy with which a man thinks of himself as present at that particular spot. These varieties
would be easily distinguishable one from the other by any one accustomed to use astral vision,
but an unpractised person would be quite likely to call them all vaguely "ghosts".

[Sidenote: Apparitions of the Dying.]

Apparitions at the time of death are by no means uncommon, and are very often really visits
paid by the astral form of the dying man just before what we elect to call the moment of dissolution;
though here again they are quite likely to be thought-forms called into being by his earnest
wish to see some friend once more before he passes into an unfamiliar condition.

[Sidenote: Haunted Localities.]

Apparitions at the spot where some crime was committed are usually thought-forms projected
by the criminal, who, whether living or dead, but most especially when dead, is perpetually
thinking over again and again the circumstances of his action; and since these thoughts are
naturally specially vivid in his mind on the anniversary of the original crime, it is often
only on that occasion that the artificial elementals he creates are strong enough to materialize
themselves to ordinary sight--a fact which accounts for the periodicity of some manifestations
of this class. Another point in reference to such phenomena is, that wherever any tremendous
mental disturbance has taken place, wherever overwhelming terror, pain, sorrow, hatred, or
indeed any kind of intense passion has been felt, an impression of so very marked a character
has been made upon the astral light that a person with even the faintest glimmer of psychic
faculty cannot but be deeply impressed by it, and it would need but a slight temporary increase
of sensibility to enable him to visualize the entire scene--to see the event in all its detail
apparently taking place before his eyes--and in such a case he would of course report that
the place was haunted, and that he had seen a ghost. Indeed, people who are as yet unable to
see psychically under any circumstances are frequently very unpleasantly impressed when visiting
such places as we have mentioned; there are many, for example, who feel uncomfortable when
passing the site of Tyburn Tree, or cannot stay in the Chamber of Horrors at Madame Tussaud's,
though they may not be in the least aware that their discomfort is due to the dreadful impressions
in the astral light which surround places and objects redolent of horror and crime, and to
the presence of the loathsome astral entities which always swarm about such centres.

[Sidenote: Family Ghosts.]

The family ghost, whom we generally find in the stock stories of the supernatural as an appanage
of the feudal castle, may be either a thought-form or an unusually vivid impression in the
astral light, or again he may really be an earth-bound ancestor still haunting the scenes in
which his thoughts and hopes centred during life.

[Sidenote: Bell-ringing, stone-throwing, etc.]

Another class of hauntings which take the form of bell-ringing, stone-throwing, or the breaking
of crockery, has already been referred to, and is almost invariably the work of elemental forces,
either set blindly in motion by the clumsy efforts of an ignorant person trying to attract
the attention of his surviving friends, or intentionally employed by some childishly mischievous
nature-spirit.

[Sidenote: Fairies.]

The nature-spirits are also responsible for whatever of truth there may be in all the strange
fairy stories which are so common in certain parts of the country. Sometimes a temporary accession
of clairvoyance, which is by no means uncommon among the inhabitants of lonely mountainous
regions, enables some belated wayfarer to watch their joyous gambols; sometimes strange tricks
are played upon some terrified victim, and a glamour is cast over him, making him, for example,
see houses and people where he knows none really exist. And this is frequently no mere momentary
delusion, for a man will sometimes go through quite a long series of imaginary but most striking
adventures, and then suddenly find that all his brilliant surroundings have vanished in a moment,
leaving him standing in some lonely valley or on some wind-swept plain. On the other hand,
it is by no means safe to accept as founded on fact all the popular legends on the subject,
for the grossest superstition is often mingled with the theories of the peasantry about these
beings, as was shown by a recent terrible murder case in Ireland.

To the same entities must be attributed a large portion of what are called physical phenomena
at spiritualistic séances--indeed, many a séance has been given entirely by these mischievous
creatures; and such a performance might easily include many very striking items, such as the
answering of questions and delivery of pretended messages by raps or tilts, the exhibition
of "spirit lights," the apport of objects from a distance, the reading of thoughts which were
in the mind of any person present, the precipitation of writings or drawings, and even materializations.
In fact, the nature-spirits alone, if any of them happened to be disposed to take the trouble,
could give a séance equal to the most wonderful of which we read; for though there may be certain
phenomena which they would not find it easy to reproduce, their marvellous power of glamour
would enable them without difficulty to persuade the entire circle that these phenomena also
had duly occurred, unless, indeed, there were present a trained observer who understood their
arts and knew how to defeat them. As a general rule, whenever silly tricks or practical jokes
are played at a séance, we may infer the presence either of low-class nature-spirits, or of
human beings who were of a sufficiently degraded type to find pleasure in such idiotic performances
during life.

[Sidenote: Communicating Entities.]

As to the entities who may "communicate" at a séance, or may obsess and speak through an entranced
medium, their name is simply legion; there is hardly a single class among all the varied inhabitants
of the astral plane from whose ranks they may not be drawn, though after the explanations given
it will be readily understood that the chances are very much against their coming from a high
one. A manifesting "spirit" may be exactly what it professes to be, but on the whole the probabilities
are that it is nothing of the kind; and for the ordinary sitter there is absolutely no means
of distinguishing the true from the false, since the extent to which a being having all the
resources of the astral plane at his command can delude a person on the physical plane is so
great that no reliance can be placed even on what seems the most convincing proof. If something
manifests which announces itself as a man's long-lost brother, he can have no certainty that
its claim is a just one; if it tells him of some fact known only to that brother and to himself,
he remains unconvinced, for he knows that it might easily have read the information from his
own mind, or from his surroundings in the astral light; even if it goes still further and tells
him something connected with his brother, of which he himself is unaware, but which he afterwards
verifies, he still realizes that even this may have been read from the astral record, or that
what he sees before him may be only the shade of his brother, and so possess his memory without
in any way being himself. It is not for one moment denied that important communications have
sometimes been made at séances by entities who in such cases have been precisely what they
said they were; all that is claimed is that it is quite impossible for the ordinary person
who visits a séance ever to be certain that he is not being cruelly deceived in one or other
of half a dozen different ways.

There have been a few cases in which members of the lodge of occultists referred to above as
originating the spiritualistic movement have themselves given, through a medium, a series of
valuable teachings on deeply interesting subjects, but this has invariably been at strictly
private family séances, not at public performances for which money has been paid.

[Sidenote: Astral Resources.]

To understand the methods by which a large class of physical phenomena are produced, it is
necessary to have some comprehension of the various resources mentioned above, which a person
functioning on the astral plane finds at his command; and this is a branch of the subject which
it is by no means easy to make clear, especially as it is hedged about with certain obviously
necessary restrictions. It may perhaps help us if we remember that the astral plane may be
regarded as in many ways only an extension of the physical, and the idea that matter may assume
the etheric state (in which, though intangible to us, it is yet purely physical) may serve
to show us how the one melts into the other. In fact, in the Hindu conception of Jagrat, or
"the waking state," the physical and astral planes are combined, its seven subdivisions corresponding
to the four conditions of physical matter, and the three broad divisions of astral matter explained
above. With this thought in our minds it is easy to move a step further, and grasp the idea
that astral vision, or rather astral perception, may from one point of view be defined as the
capability of receiving an enormously increased number of different sets of vibrations. In
our physical bodies one small set of slow vibrations is perceptible to us as sound; another
small set of much more rapid vibrations affects us as light; and again another set as electric
action: but there are immense numbers of intermediate vibrations which produce no result which
our physical senses can cognize at all. Now it will readily be seen that if all, or even some
only, of these intermediates, with all the complications producible by differences of wave-length,
are perceptible on the astral plane, our comprehension of nature might be very greatly increased
on that level, and we might be able to acquire much information which is now hidden from us.

[Sidenote: Clairvoyance.]

[Sidenote: Prevision and Second-sight.]

It is admitted that some of these pass through solid matter with perfect ease, so that this
enables us to account scientifically for some of the peculiarities of astral vision, though
those minds to which the theory of the fourth dimension commends itself find in it a neater
and more complete explanation. It is clear that the mere possession of this astral vision by
a being would at once account for his capability to produce many results that seem very wonderful
to us--such, for example, as the reading of a passage from a closed book; and when we remember,
furthermore, that this faculty includes the power of thought-reading to the fullest extent,
and also, when combined with the knowledge of the projection of currents in the astral light,
that of observing a desired object in almost any part of the world, we see that a good many
of the phenomena of clairvoyance are explicable even without rising above this level. Of course
true, trained, and absolutely reliable clairvoyance calls into operation an entirely different
set of faculties, but as these belong to a higher plane than the astral, they form no part
of our present subject. The faculty of accurate prevision, again, appertains altogether to
that higher plane, yet flashes or reflections of it frequently show themselves to purely astral
sight, more especially among simple-minded people who live under suitable conditions--what
is called "second-sight" among the Highlanders of Scotland being a well-known example.

Another fact which must not be forgotten is that any intelligent inhabitant of the astral plane
is not only able to perceive these etheric vibrations, but can also--if he has learnt how it
is done--adapt them to his own ends or himself set them in motion.

[Sidenote: Astral Forces.]

[Sidenote: Etheric Currents.]

[Sidenote: Etheric Pressure.]

[Sidenote: Latent Energy.]

[Sidenote: Sympathetic Vibration.]

It will be readily understood that superphysical forces and the methods of managing them are
not subjects about which much can be written for publication at present, though there is reason
to suppose that it may not be very long before at any rate some applications of one or two
of them come to be known to the world at large: but it may perhaps be possible, without transgressing
the limits of the permissible, to give so much of an idea of them as shall be sufficient to
show in outline how certain phenomena are performed. All who have much experience of spiritualistic
séances at which physical results are produced must at one time or another have seen evidence
of the employment of practically resistless force in, for example, the instantaneous movement
of enormous weights, and so on; and if of a scientific turn of mind, they may perhaps have
wondered whence this force was obtained, and what was the leverage employed. As usual in connection
with astral phenomena, there are several ways in which such work may have been done, but it
will be enough for the moment to hint at four. First, there are great etheric currents constantly
sweeping over the surface of the earth from pole to pole in volume which makes their power
as irresistible as that of the rising tide, and there are methods by which this stupendous
force may be safely utilized, though unskilful attempts to control it would be fraught with
frightful danger. Secondly, there is what can best be described as an etheric pressure, somewhat
corresponding to, though immensely greater than, the atmospheric pressure. In ordinary life
we are as little conscious of one of these pressures as we are of the other, but nevertheless
they both exist, and if science were able to exhaust the ether from a given space, as it can
exhaust the air, the one could be proved as readily as the other. The difficulty of doing that
lies in the fact that matter in the etheric condition freely inter-penetrates matter in all
states below it, so that there is as yet no means within the knowledge of our physicists by
which any given body of ether can be isolated from the rest. Practical Occultism, however,
teaches how this can be done, and thus the tremendous force of etheric pressure can be brought
into play. Thirdly, there is a vast store of potential energy which has become dormant in matter
during the involution of the subtle into the gross, and by changing the condition of the matter
some of this may be liberated and utilized, somewhat as latent energy in the form of heat may
be liberated by a change in the condition of visible matter. Fourthly, many striking results,
both great and small, may be produced by an extension of a principle which may be described
as that of sympathetic vibration. Illustrations taken from the physical plane seem generally
to misrepresent rather than elucidate astral phenomena, because they can never be more than
partially applicable; but the recollection of two simple facts of ordinary life may help to
make this important branch of our subject clearer, if we are careful not to push the analogy
further than it will hold good. It is well known that if one of the wires of a harp be made
to vibrate vigorously, its movement will call forth sympathetic vibrations in the corresponding
strings of any number of harps placed round it, if they are tuned to exactly the same pitch.
It is also well known that when a large body of soldiers crosses a suspension bridge it is
necessary for them to break step, since the perfect regularity of their ordinary march would
set up a vibration in the bridge which would be intensified by every step they took, until
the point of resistance of the iron was passed, when the whole structure would fly to pieces.
With these two analogies in our minds (never forgetting that they are only partial ones) it
may seem more comprehensible that one who knows exactly at what rate to start his vibrations--knows,
so to speak, the keynote of the class of matter he wishes to affect--should be able by sounding
that keynote to call forth an immense number of sympathetic vibrations. When this is done on
the physical plane no additional energy is developed; but on the astral plane there is this
difference, that the matter with which we are dealing is far less inert, and so when called
into action by these sympathetic vibrations it adds its own living force to the original impulse,
which may thus be multiplied many-fold; and then by further rhythmic repetition of the original
impulse, as in the case of the soldiers marching over the bridge, the vibrations may be so
intensified that the result is out of all apparent proportion to the cause. Indeed, it may
be said that there is scarcely any limit to the conceivable achievements of this force in the
hands of a great Adept Who fully comprehends its possibilities; for the very building of the
Universe itself was but the result of the vibrations set up by the Spoken Word.

[Sidenote: Mantras.]

The class of mantras or spells which produce their result not by controlling some elemental,
but merely by the repetition of certain sounds, also depend for their efficacy upon this action
of sympathetic vibration.

[Sidenote: Disintegration.]

The phenomenon of disintegration also may be brought about by the action of extremely rapid
vibrations, which overcome the cohesion of the molecules of the object operated upon. A still
higher rate of vibrations of a somewhat different type will separate these molecules into their
constituent atoms. A body reduced by these means to the etheric condition can be moved by an
astral current from one place to another with very great rapidity; and the moment that the
force which has been exerted to put it into that condition is withdrawn it will be forced by
the etheric pressure to resume its original form. It is in this way that objects are sometimes
brought almost instantaneously from great distances at spiritualistic séances, and it is obvious
that when disintegrated they could be passed with perfect ease through any solid substance,
such, for example, as the wall of a house or the side of a locked box, so that what is commonly
called "the passage of matter through matter" is seen, when properly understood, to be as simple
as the passage of water through a sieve, or of a gas through a liquid in some chemical experiment.

[Sidenote: Materialization.]

Since it is possible by an alteration of vibrations to change matter from the solid to the
etheric condition, it will be comprehended that it is also possible to reverse the process
and to bring etheric matter into the solid state. As the one process explains the phenomenon
of disintegration, so does the other that of materialization; and just as in the former case
a continued effort of will is necessary to prevent the object from resuming its original form,
so in exactly the same way in the latter phenomenon a continued effort is necessary to prevent
the materialized matter from relapsing into the etheric condition. In the materializations
seen at an ordinary séance, such matter as may be required is borrowed as far as possible from
the medium's etheric double--an operation which is prejudicial to his health, and also undesirable
in various other ways; and this explains the fact that the materialized form is usually strictly
confined to the immediate neighbourhood of the medium, and is subject to an attraction which
is constantly drawing it back to the body from which it came, so that if kept away from the
medium too long the figure collapses, and the matter which composed it, returning to the etheric
condition, rushes back instantly to its source.

[Sidenote: Why Darkness is required.]

[Sidenote: Spirit Photographs.]

The reason why the beings directing a séance find it easier to operate in darkness or in very
subdued light will now be manifest, since their power would usually be insufficient to hold
together a materialized form or even a "spirit hand" for more than a very few seconds amidst
the intense vibrations set up by brilliant light. The habitués of séances will no doubt have
noticed that materializations are of three kinds:--First, those which are tangible but not
visible; second, those which are visible but not tangible; and third, those which are both
visible and tangible. To the first kind, which is much the most common, belong the invisible
spirit hands which so frequently stroke the faces of the sitters or carry small objects about
the room, and the vocal organs from which the "direct voice" proceeds. In this case, an order
of matter is being used which can neither reflect nor obstruct light, but which is capable
under certain conditions of setting up vibrations in the atmosphere which affect us as sound.
A variation of this class is that kind of partial materialization which, though incapable of
reflecting any light that we can see, is yet able to affect some of the ultra-violet rays,
and can therefore make a more or less definite impression upon the camera, and so provide us
with what are known as "spirit photographs". When there is not sufficient power available to
produce a perfect materialization we sometimes get the vaporous-looking form which constitutes
our second class, and in such a case the "spirits" usually warn their sitters that the forms
which appear must not be touched. In the rarer case of a full materialization there is sufficient
power to hold together, at least for a few moments, a form which can be both seen and touched.

When an Adept or pupil finds it necessary for any purpose to materialize his Mâyâvirûpa or
his astral body, he does not draw upon either his own etheric double or any one else's, since
he has been taught how to extract the matter which he requires directly from the astral light
or even from the Âkâsha.

[Sidenote: Reduplication.]

Another phenomenon closely connected with this part of the subject is that of reduplication,
which is produced by simply forming in the astral light a perfect mental image of the object
to be copied, and then gathering about that mould the necessary physical matter. Of course
for this purpose it is necessary that every particle, interior as well as exterior, of the
object to be duplicated should be held accurately in view simultaneously, and consequently
the phenomenon is one which requires considerable power of concentration to perform. Persons
unable to reduce the matter required directly from the astral light have sometimes borrowed
it from the material of the original article, which in this case would be correspondingly reduced
in weight.

[Sidenote: Precipitation.]

We read a good deal in Theosophical literature about the precipitation of letters or pictures.
This result, like everything else, may be obtained in several ways. An Adept wishing to communicate
with some one might place a sheet of paper before him, form an image of the writing which he
wished to appear upon it, and draw from the astral light the matter wherewith to objectify
that image; or if he preferred to do so it would be equally easy for him to produce the same
result upon a sheet of paper lying before his correspondent, whatever might be the distance
between them. A third method which, since it saves time, is much more frequently adopted, is
to impress the whole substance of the letter on the mind of some pupil, and leave him to do
the mechanical work of precipitation. That pupil would then take his sheet of paper, and, imagining
he saw the letter written thereon in his Master's hand, would proceed to objectify the writing
as before described. If he found it difficult to perform simultaneously the two operations
of drawing his material from the astral light and precipitating the writing on the paper, he
might have either ordinary ink or a small quantity of coloured powder on the table beside him,
which, being already physical matter, could be drawn upon more readily.

It is of course obvious that the possession of this power would be a very dangerous weapon
in the hands of an unscrupulous person, since it is just as easy to imitate one man's handwriting
as another's, and it would be impossible to detect by any ordinary means a forgery committed
in this manner. A pupil definitely connected with any Master has always an infallible test
by which he knows whether any message really emanates from that Master or not, but for others
the proof of its origin must always lie solely in the contents of the letter and the spirit
breathing through it, as the handwriting, however cleverly imitated, is of absolutely no value
as evidence.

As to speed, a pupil new to the work of precipitation would probably be able to image only
a few words at a time, and would, therefore, get on hardly more rapidly than if he wrote his
letter in the ordinary way, but a more experienced individual who could visualize a whole page
or perhaps the entire letter at once would get through his work with greater facility. One day
the Emperor went hunting, and before setting out he said to his son-in-law,
"Do you remain in the castle during my absence.

I give to you nine keys which you must keep carefully by you. I give you free leave to open
three or four rooms. You will find in them silver and gold in abundance; there is also no lack
of weapons, or of any kind of treasure. You may even, if you feel inclined, open eight of
the rooms. But beware of unlocking the ninth. Leave that one alone; for," he added, "if you do not
it will be the worse for you." Upon this the Emperor departed, leaving his son-in-law at home
alone.

Hardly was the Emperor gone when the Prince began to open one door after another, until he had examined
eight rooms in succession.

[Sidenote: Slate-writing.]

The slate-writing, for the production of which under test conditions some of the greatest mediums
have been so famous, is sometimes produced by precipitation, though more frequently the fragment
of pencil enclosed between the slates is guided by a spirit hand, of which only just the tiny
points sufficient to grasp it are materialized.

[Sidenote: Levitation.]

An occurrence which occasionally takes place at séances, and more frequently among eastern
Yógîs, is what is called levitation--that is, the floating of a human body in the air. No doubt
when this takes place in the case of a medium, he is often simply upborne by "spirit hands,"
but there is another and more scientific method of accomplishing this feat which is always
used in the East, and occasionally here also. Occult science is acquainted with a means of
neutralizing or even entirely reversing the attraction of gravity, and it is obvious that by
the judicious use of this power all the phenomena of levitation may be easily produced. It
was no doubt by a knowledge of this secret that some of the air-ships of ancient India and
Atlantis were raised from the earth and made light enough to be readily moved and directed;
and not improbably the same acquaintance with nature's finer forces greatly facilitated the
labours of those who raised the enormous blocks of stone sometimes used in cyclopean architecture,
or in the building of the Pyramids and Stonehenge.

[Sidenote: Spirit Lights.]

With the knowledge of the forces of nature which the resources of the astral plane place at
the command its inhabitants the production of what are called "spirit lights" is a very easy
matter, whether they be of the mildly phosphorescent or the dazzling electrical variety, or
those curious dancing globules of light into which a certain class of fire elementals so readily
transform themselves. Since all light consists simply of vibrations of the ether, it is obvious
that any one who knows how to set up these vibrations can readily produce any kind of light
that he wishes.

[Sidenote: Handling Fire.]

It is by the aid of the etheric elemental essence also that the remarkable feat of handling
fire unharmed is generally performed, though there are as usual other ways in which it can
be done. The thinnest layer of etheric substance can be so manipulated as to be absolutely
impervious to heat, and when the hand of a medium or sitter is covered with this he may pick
up burning coal or red-hot iron with perfect safety.

[Sidenote: Transmutation.]

Most of the occurrences of the séance-room have now been referred to, but there are one or
two of the rarer phenomena of the outer world which must not be left quite without mention
in our list. The transmutation of metals is commonly supposed to be a mere dream of the mediæval
alchemists, and no doubt in most cases the description of the phenomenon was merely a symbol
of the purification of the soul; yet there seems to be some evidence that it was really accomplished
by them on several occasions, and there are petty magicians in the East who profess to do it
under test conditions even now. Be that as it may, it is evident that since the ultimate atom
is one and the same in all substances, and it is only the methods of its combination that differ,
any one who possessed the power of reducing a piece of metal to the atomic condition and of
re-arranging its atoms in some other form would have no difficulty in effecting transmutation
to any extent that he wished.

[Sidenote: Repercussion.]

The principle of sympathetic vibration mentioned above also provides the explanation of that
strange and little-known phenomenon called repercussion, by means of which any injury done
to, or any mark made upon, the astral body in the course of its wanderings will be reproduced
in the physical body. We find traces of this in some of the evidence given at trials for witchcraft
in the middle ages, in which it is not infrequently stated that some wound given to the witch
when in the form of a dog or a wolf was found to have appeared in the corresponding part of
her human body. The same strange law has sometimes led to an entirely unjust accusation of
fraud against a medium, because, for example, some colouring matter rubbed upon the hand of
a materialized "spirit" was afterwards found upon his hand--the explanation being that in that
case, as so often happens, the "spirit" was simply the medium's astral body or perhaps even
his etheric double, forced by the guiding influences to take some form other than his own.
In fact the astral and physical bodies are so intimately connected that it is impossible to
touch the keynote of one without immediately setting up exactly corresponding vibrations in
the other.

CONCLUSION.

It is hoped that any reader who has been sufficiently interested to
follow this treatise thus far, may by this time have a general idea of
the astral plane and its possibilities, such as will enable him to
understand and fit into their proper places in its scheme any facts in
connection with it which he may pick up in his reading. Though only
the roughest sketch has been given of a very great subject, enough has
perhaps been said to show the extreme importance of astral perception
in the study of biology, physics, chemistry, astronomy, medicine and
history, and the great impulse which might be given by its development
to all these sciences. Yet its attainment should never be regarded as
an end in itself, since any means adopted with that object in view
would inevitably lead to what is called in the East the laukika
method of development--a system by which certain psychic powers are
indeed acquired, but only for the present personality; and since their
acquisition is surrounded by no safeguards, the student is extremely
likely to misuse them. To this class belong all systems which involve
the use of drugs, invocation of elementals, or the practices of Hatha
Yoga. The other method, which is called the lokottara, consists of
Raj Yoga or spiritual progress, and though it may be somewhat slower
than the other, whatever is acquired along this line is gained for the
permanent individuality, and never lost again, while the guiding care
of a Master ensures perfect safety from misuse of power as long as
his orders are scrupulously obeyed. The opening of astral vision must
be regarded then only as a stage in the development of something
infinitely nobler--merely as a step, and a very small step, on that
great Upward Path which leads men to the sublime heights of Adeptship,
and beyond even that through glorious vistas of wisdom and power such
as our finite minds cannot now conceive.
    Its splendour glows and its influence grows
      As Nature's slow work appears,
    From the zoophyte small to the LORDS of all,
      Through kalpas and crores of years.

       *       *       *       *       *

