THE LOUISA ALCOTT READER

A Supplementary Reader for the Fourth Year of School

BY LOUISA M. ALCOTT

CONTENTS.

I. A CHRISTMAS DREAM

II. THE CANDY COUNTRY

III. NAUGHTY JOCKO

IV. THE SKIPPING SHOES

V. COCKYLOO

VI. ROSY'S JOURNEY

VII. HOW THEY RAN AWAY

VIII. THE FAIRY BOX

IX. A HOLE IN THE WALL

X. THE PIGGY GIRL

I.

A CHRISTMAS DREAM, AND HOW IT CAME TRUE.

"I'm so tired of Christmas I wish there never would be another one!" exclaimed a discontented-looking
little girl, as she sat idly watching her mother arrange a pile of gifts two days before they
were to be given.

"Why, Effie, what a dreadful thing to say! You are as bad as old Scrooge; and I'm afraid something
will happen to you, as it did to him, if you don't care for dear Christmas," answered mamma,
almost dropping the silver horn she was filling with delicious candies. 

Hear! "shout Mrs. Parker, and tapped the table with her spoon."

The ringing of a bell will be the signal for meals. "" Approved!
"shout Kay."

Second the motion! "shrilled her mother."

My
cook, Carolina, is queen of the kitchen, and Spanish cuisine will
prevail. He hated
Christmas until a strange dream showed him how dear and beautiful it was, and made a better
man of him."

"I shall read it; for I like dreams, and have a great many curious ones myself. But they don't
keep me from being tired of Christmas," said Effie, poking discontentedly among the sweeties
for something worth eating.

"Why are you tired of what should be the happiest time of all the year?" asked mamma, anxiously.

"Perhaps I shouldn't be if I had something new. But it is always the same, and there isn't
any more surprise about it. I always find heaps of goodies in my stocking. Don't like some
of them, and soon get tired of those I do like. We always have a great dinner, and I eat too
much, and feel ill next day. Then there is a Christmas tree somewhere, with a doll on top,
or a stupid old Santa Claus, and children dancing and screaming over bonbons and toys that
break, and shiny things that are of no use. Really, mamma, I've had so many Christmases all
alike that I don't think I can bear another one." And Effie laid herself flat on the sofa,
as if the mere idea was too much for her.

Her mother laughed at her despair, but was sorry to see her little girl so discontented, when
she had everything to make her happy, and had known but ten Christmas days.

"Suppose we don't give you any presents at all,--how would that suit you?" asked mamma, anxious
to please her spoiled child.

"I should like one large and splendid one, and one dear little one, to remember some very nice
person by," said Effie, who was a fanciful little body, full of odd whims and notions, which
her friends loved to gratify, regardless of time, trouble, or money; for she was the last of
three little girls, and very dear to all the family.

"Well, my darling, I will see what I can do to please you, and not say a word until all is
ready. If I could only get a new idea to start with!" And mamma went on tying up her pretty
bundles with a thoughtful face, while Effie strolled to the window to watch the rain that kept
her in-doors and made her dismal.

"Seems to me poor children have better times than rich ones. I can't go out, and there is a
girl about my age splashing along, without any maid to fuss about rubbers and cloaks and umbrellas
and colds. I wish I was a beggar-girl."

"Would you like to be hungry, cold, and ragged, to beg all day, and sleep on an ash-heap at
night?" asked mamma, wondering what would come next.

"Cinderella did, and had a nice time in the end. This girl out here has a basket of scraps
on her arm, and a big old shawl all round her, and doesn't seem to care a bit, though the water
runs out of the toes of her boots. She goes paddling along, laughing at the rain, and eating
a cold potato as if it tasted nicer than the chicken and ice-cream I had for dinner. Yes, I
do think poor children are happier than rich ones."

"So do I, sometimes. At the Orphan Asylum today I saw two dozen merry little souls who have
no parents, no home, and no hope of Christmas beyond a stick of candy or a cake. I wish you
had been there to see how happy they were, playing with the old toys some richer children had
sent them."

"You may give them all mine; I'm so tired of them I never want to see them again," said Effie,
turning from the window to the pretty baby-house full of everything a child's heart could desire.

"I will, and let you begin again with something you will not tire of, if I can only find it."
And mamma knit her brows trying to discover some grand surprise for this child who didn't care
for Christmas.

Nothing more was said then; and wandering off to the library, Effie found "A Christmas Carol,"
and curling herself up in the sofa corner, read it all before tea. Some of it she did not understand;
but she laughed and cried over many parts of the charming story, and felt better without knowing
why.

All the evening she thought of poor Tiny Tim, Mrs. Cratchit with the pudding, and the stout
old gentleman who danced so gayly that "his legs twinkled in the air." Presently bedtime arrived.

"Come, now, and toast your feet," said Effie's nurse, "while I do your pretty hair and tell
stories."

"I'll have a fairy tale to-night, a very interesting one," commanded Effie, as she put on her
blue silk wrapper and little fur-lined slippers to sit before the fire and have her long curls
brushed.

So Nursey told her best tales; and when at last the child lay down under her lace curtains,
her head was full of a curious jumble of Christmas elves, poor children, snow-storms, sugarplums,
and surprises. So it is no wonder that she dreamed all night; and this was the dream, which
she never quite forgot.

She found herself sitting on a stone, in the middle of a great field, all alone. The snow was
falling fast, a bitter wind whistled by, and night was coming on. She felt hungry, cold, and
tired, and did not know where to go nor what to do.

"I wanted to be a beggar-girl, and now I am one; but I don't like it, and wish somebody would
come and take care of me. I don't know who I am, and I think I must be lost," thought Effie,
with the curious interest one takes in one's self in dreams.

But the more she thought about it, the more bewildered she felt. Faster fell the snow, colder
blew the wind, darker grew the night; and poor Effie made up her mind that she was quite forgotten
and left to freeze alone. The tears were chilled on her cheeks, her feet felt like icicles,
and her heart died within her, so hungry, frightened, and forlorn was she. Laying her head
on her knees, she gave herself up for lost, and sat there with the great flakes fast turning
her to a little white mound, when suddenly the sound of music reached her, and starting up,
she looked and listened with all her eyes and ears.

Far away a dim light shone, and a voice was heard singing. She tried to run toward the welcome
glimmer, but could not stir, and stood like a small statue of expectation while the light drew
nearer, and the sweet words of the song grew clearer.

    From our happy home
    Through the world we roam
  One week in all the year,
    Making winter spring
    With the joy we bring,
  For Christmas-tide is here.

    Now the eastern star
    Shines from afar
  To light the poorest home;
    Hearts warmer grow,
    Gifts freely flow,
  For Christmas-tide has come.

    Now gay trees rise
    Before young eyes,
  Abloom with tempting cheer;
    Blithe voices sing,
    And blithe bells ring,
  For Christmas-tide is here.

    Oh, happy chime,
    Oh, blessed time,
  That draws us all so near!
    "Welcome, dear day,"
    All creatures say,
  For Christmas-tide is here.

A child's voice sang, a child's hand carried the little candle; and in the circle of soft light
it shed, Effie saw a pretty child coming to her through the night and snow. A rosy, smiling
creature, wrapped in white fur, with a wreath of green and scarlet holly on its shining hair,
the magic candle in one hand, and the other outstretched as if to shower gifts and warmly press
all other hands.

Effie forgot to speak as this bright vision came nearer, leaving no trace of footsteps in the
snow, only lighting the way with its little candle, and filling the air with the music of its song.

"Dear child, you are lost, and I have come to find you," said the stranger, taking Effie's
cold hands in his, with a smile like sunshine, while every holly berry glowed like a little fire.

"Do you know me?" asked Effie, feeling no fear, but a great gladness, at his coming.

"I know all children, and go to find them; for this is my holiday, and I gather them from all
parts of the world to be merry with me once a year."

"Are you an angel?" asked Effie, looking for the wings.

"No; I am a Christmas spirit, and live with my mates in a pleasant place, getting ready for
our holiday, when we are let out to roam about the world, helping make this a happy time for
all who will let us in. Will you come and see how we work?"

"I will go anywhere with you. Don't leave me again," cried Effie, gladly.

"First I will make you comfortable. That is what we love to do. You are cold, and you shall
be warm, hungry, and I will feed you; sorrowful, and I will make you gay."

With a wave of his candle all three miracles were wrought,--for the snow- flakes turned to
a white fur cloak and hood on Effie's head and shoulders, a bowl of hot soup came sailing to
her lips, and vanished when she had eagerly drunk the last drop; and suddenly the dismal field
changed to a new world so full of wonders that all her troubles were forgotten in a minute.

Bells were ringing so merrily that it was hard to keep from dancing. Green garlands hung on
the walls, and every tree was a Christmas tree full of toys, and blazing with candles that
never went out.

In one place many little spirits sewed like mad on warm clothes, turning off work faster than
any sewing-machine ever invented, and great piles were made ready to be sent to poor people.
Other busy creatures packed money into purses, and wrote checks which they sent flying away
on the wind,--a lovely kind of snow-storm to fall into a world below full of poverty.

Older and graver spirits were looking over piles of little books, in which the records of the
past year were kept, telling how different people had spent it, and what sort of gifts they
deserved. Some got peace, some disappointment, some remorse and sorrow, some great joy and
hope. The rich had generous thoughts sent them; the poor, gratitude and contentment. Children
had more love and duty to parents; and parents renewed patience, wisdom, and satisfaction for
and in their children. No one was forgotten.

"Please tell me what splendid place this is?" asked Effie, as soon as she could collect her
wits after the first look at all these astonishing things.

"This is the Christmas world; and here we work all the year round, never tired of getting ready
for the happy day. See, these are the saints just setting off; for some have far to go, and
the children must not be disappointed."

As he spoke the spirit pointed to four gates, out of which four great sleighs were just driving,
laden with toys, while a jolly old Santa Claus sat in the middle of each, drawing on his mittens
and tucking up his wraps for a long cold drive.

"Why, I thought there was only one Santa Claus, and even he was a humbug," cried Effie, astonished
at the sight.

"Never give up your faith in the sweet old stones, even after you come to see that they are
only the pleasant shadow of a lovely truth."

Just then the sleighs went off with a great jingling of bells and pattering of reindeer hoofs,
while all the spirits gave a cheer that was heard in the lower world, where people said, "Hear
the stars sing."

"I never will say there isn't any Santa Claus again. Now, show me more."

"You will like to see this place, I think, and may learn something here perhaps"

The spirit smiled as he led the way to a little door, through which Effie peeped into a world
of dolls. Baby-houses were in full blast, with dolls of all sorts going on like live people.
Waxen ladies sat in their parlors elegantly dressed; black dolls cooked in the kitchens; nurses
walked out with the bits of dollies; and the streets were full of tin soldiers marching, wooden
horses prancing, express wagons rumbling, and little men hurrying to and fro. Shops were there,
and tiny people buying legs of mutton, pounds of tea, mites of clothes, and everything dolls
use or wear or want.

But presently she saw that in some ways the dolls improved upon the manners and customs of
human beings, and she watched eagerly to learn why they did these things. A fine Paris doll
driving in her carriage took up a black worsted Dinah who was hobbling along with a basket
of clean clothes, and carried her to her journey's end, as if it were the proper thing to do.
Another interesting china lady took off her comfortable red cloak and put it round a poor wooden
creature done up in a paper shift, and so badly painted that its face would have sent some
babies into fits.

"Seems to me I once knew a rich girl who didn't give her things to poor girls. I wish I could
remember who she was, and tell her to be as kind as that china doll," said Effie, much touched
at the sweet way the pretty creature wrapped up the poor fright, and then ran off in her little
gray gown to buy a shiny fowl stuck on a wooden platter for her invalid mother's dinner.

"We recall these things to people's minds by dreams. I think the girl you speak of won't forget
this one." And the spirit smiled, as if he enjoyed some joke which she did not see.

A little bell rang as she looked, and away scampered the children into the red-and-green school-house
with the roof that lifted up, so one could see how nicely they sat at their desks with mites
of books, or drew on the inch-square blackboards with crumbs of chalk.

"They know their lessons very well, and are as still as mice. We make a great racket at our
school, and get bad marks every day. I shall tell the girls they had better mind what they
do, or their dolls will be better scholars than they are," said Effie, much impressed, as she
peeped in and saw no rod in the hand of the little mistress, who looked up and shook her head
at the intruder, as if begging her to go away before the order of the school was disturbed.

Effie retired at once, but could not resist one look in at the window of a fine mansion, where
the family were at dinner, the children behaved so well at table, and never grumbled a bit
when their mamma said they could not have any more fruit.

"Now, show me something else," she said, as they came again to the low door that led out of
Doll-land.

"You have seen how we prepare for Christmas; let me show you where we love best to send our
good and happy gifts," answered the spirit, giving her his hand again.

"I know. I've seen ever so many," began Effie, thinking of her own Christmases.

"No, you have never seen what I will show you. Come away, and remember what you see to-night."

Like a flash that bright world vanished, and Effie found herself in a part of the city she
had never seen before. It was far away from the gayer places, where every store was brilliant
with lights and full of pretty things, and every house wore a festival air, while people hurried
to and fro with merry greetings. It was down among the dingy streets where the poor lived,
and where there was no making ready for Christmas.

Hungry women looked in at the shabby shops, longing to buy meat and bread, but empty pockets
forbade. Tipsy men drank up their wages in the bar- rooms; and in many cold dark chambers little
children huddled under the thin blankets, trying to forget their misery in sleep.

No nice dinners filled the air with savory smells, no gay trees dropped toys and bonbons into
eager hands, no little stockings hung in rows beside the chimney-piece ready to be filled,
no happy sounds of music, gay voices, and dancing feet were heard; and there were no signs
of Christmas anywhere.

"Don't they have any in this place?" asked Effie, shivering, as she held fast the spirit's
hand, following where he led her.

"We come to bring it. Let me show you our best workers." And the spirit pointed to some sweet-faced
men and women who came stealing into the poor houses, working such beautiful miracles that
Effie could only stand and watch.

Some slipped money into the empty pockets, and sent the happy mothers to buy all the comforts
they needed; others led the drunken men out of temptation, and took them home to find safer
pleasures there. Fires were kindled on cold hearths, tables spread as if by magic, and warm
clothes wrapped round shivering limbs. Flowers suddenly bloomed in the chambers of the sick;
old people found themselves remembered; sad hearts were consoled by a tender word, and wicked
ones softened by the story of Him who forgave all sin.

But the sweetest work was for the children; and Effie held her breath to watch these human
fairies hang up and fill the little stockings without which a child's Christmas is not perfect,
putting in things that once she would have thought very humble presents, but which now seemed
beautiful and precious because these poor babies had nothing.

"That is so beautiful! I wish I could make merry Christmases as these good people do, and be
loved and thanked as they are," said Effie, softly, as she watched the busy men and women do
their work and steal away without thinking of any reward but their own satisfaction.

"You can if you will. I have shown you the way. Try it, and see how happy your own holiday
will be hereafter."

As he spoke, the spirit seemed to put his arms about her, and vanished with a kiss.

"Oh, stay and show me more!" cried Effie, trying to hold him fast.

"Darling, wake up, and tell me why you are smiling in your sleep," said a voice in her ear;
and opening her eyes, there was mamma bending over her, and morning sunshine streaming into
the room.

"Are they all gone? Did you hear the bells? Wasn't it splendid?" she asked, rubbing her eyes,
and looking about her for the pretty child who was so real and sweet.

"You have been dreaming at a great rate,--talking in your sleep, laughing, and clapping your
hands as if you were cheering some one. Tell me what was so splendid," said mamma, smoothing
the tumbled hair and lifting up the sleepy head.

Then, while she was being dressed, Effie told her dream, and Nursey thought it very wonderful;
but mamma smiled to see how curiously things the child had thought, read, heard, and seen through
the day were mixed up in her sleep.

"The spirit said I could work lovely miracles if I tried; but I don't know how to begin, for
I have no magic candle to make feasts appear, and light up groves of Christmas trees, as he
did," said Effie, sorrowfully.

"Yes, you have. We will do it! we will do it!" And clapping her hands, mamma suddenly began
to dance all over the room as if she had lost her wits.

"How? how? You must tell me, mamma," cried Effie, dancing after her, and ready to believe anything
possible when she remembered the adventures of the past night.

"I've got it! I've got it!--the new idea. A splendid one, if I can only carry it out!" And
mamma waltzed the little girl round till her curls flew wildly in the air, while Nursey laughed
as if she would die.

"Tell me! tell me!" shrieked Effie. "No, no; it is a surprise,--a grand surprise for Christmas
day!" sung mamma, evidently charmed with her happy thought. "Now, come to breakfast; for we
must work like bees if we want to play spirits tomorrow. You and Nursey will go out shopping,
and get heaps of things, while I arrange matters behind the scenes."

They were running downstairs as mamma spoke, and Effie called out breathlessly,--

"It won't be a surprise; for I know you are going to ask some poor children here, and have
a tree or something. It won't be like my dream; for they had ever so many trees, and more children
than we can find anywhere."

"There will be no tree, no party, no dinner, in this house at all, and no presents for you.
Won't that be a surprise?" And mamma laughed at Effie's bewildered face.

"Do it. I shall like it, I think; and I won't ask any questions, so it will all burst upon
me when the time comes," she said; and she ate her breakfast thoughtfully, for this really
would be a new sort of Christmas.

All that morning Effie trotted after Nursey in and out of shops, buying dozens of barking dogs,
woolly lambs, and squeaking birds; tiny tea-sets, gay picture-books, mittens and hoods, dolls
and candy. Parcel after parcel was sent home; but when Effie returned she saw no trace of them,
though she peeped everywhere. Nursey chuckled, but wouldn't give a hint, and went out again
in the afternoon with a long list of more things to buy; while Effie wandered forlornly about
the house, missing the usual merry stir that went before the Christmas dinner and the evening fun.

As for mamma, she was quite invisible all day, and came in at night so tired that she could
only lie on the sofa to rest, smiling as if some very pleasant thought made her happy in spite
of weariness.

"Is the surprise going on all right?" asked Effie, anxiously; for it seemed an immense time
to wait till another evening came.

"Beautifully! better than I expected; for several of my good friends are helping, or I couldn't
have done it as I wish. I know you will like it, dear, and long remember this new way of making
Christmas merry."

Mamma gave her a very tender kiss, and Effie went to bed.

       *       *       *       *       *

The next day was a very strange one; for when she woke there was no stocking to examine, no
pile of gifts under her napkin, no one said "Merry Christmas!" to her, and the dinner was just
as usual to her. Mamma vanished again, and Nursey kept wiping her eyes and saying: "The dear
things! It's the prettiest idea I ever heard of. No one but your blessed ma could have done it."

"Do stop, Nursey, or I shall go crazy because I don't know the secret!" cried Effie, more than
once; and she kept her eye on the clock, for at seven in the evening the surprise was to come off.

The longed-for hour arrived at last, and the child was too excited to ask questions when Nurse
put on her cloak and hood, led her to the carriage, and they drove away, leaving their house
the one dark and silent one in the row.

"I feel like the girls in the fairy tales who are led off to strange places and see fine things,"
said Effie, in a whisper, as they jingled through the gay streets.

"Ah, my deary, it is like a fairy tale, I do assure you, and you will see finer things than
most children will tonight. Steady, now, and do just as I tell you, and don't say one word
whatever you see," answered Nursey, quite quivering with excitement as she patted a large box
in her lap, and nodded and laughed with twinkling eyes.

They drove into a dark yard, and Effie was led through a back door to a little room, where
Nurse coolly proceeded to take off not only her cloak and hood, but her dress and shoes also.
Effie stared and bit her lips, but kept still until out of the box came a little white fur
coat and boots, a wreath of holly leaves and berries, and a candle with a frill of gold paper
round it. A long "Oh!" escaped her then; and when she was dressed and saw herself in the glass,
she started back, exclaiming, "Why, Nursey, I look like the spirit in my dream!"

"So you do; and that's the part you are to play, my pretty! Now whist, while I blind your eyes
and put you in your place."

"Shall I be afraid?" whispered Effie, full of wonder; for as they went out she heard the sound
of many voices, the tramp of many feet, and, in spite of the bandage, was sure a great light
shone upon her when she stopped.

"You needn't be; I shall stand close by, and your ma will be there."

After the handkerchief was tied about her eyes, Nurse led Effie up some steps, and placed her
on a high platform, where something like leaves touched her head, and the soft snap of lamps
seemed to fill the air.

Music began as soon as Nurse clapped her hands, the voices outside sounded nearer, and the
tramp was evidently coming up the stairs.

"Now, my precious, look and see how you and your dear ma have made a merry Christmas for them
that needed it!"

Off went the bandage; and for a minute Effie really did think she was asleep again, for she
actually stood in "a grove of Christmas trees," all gay and shining as in her vision. Twelve
on a side, in two rows down the room, stood the little pines, each on its low table; and behind
Effie a taller one rose to the roof, hung with wreaths of popcorn, apples, oranges, horns of
candy, and cakes of all sorts, from sugary hearts to gingerbread Jumbos. On the smaller trees
she saw many of her own discarded toys and those Nursey bought, as well as heaps that seemed
to have rained down straight from that delightful Christmas country where she felt as if she
was again.

"How splendid! Who is it for? What is that noise? Where is mamma?" cried Effie, pale with pleasure
and surprise, as she stood looking down the brilliant little street from her high place.

Before Nurse could answer, the doors at the lower end flew open, and in marched twenty-four
little blue-gowned orphan girls, singing sweetly, until amazement changed the song to cries
of joy and wonder as the shining spectacle appeared. While they stood staring with round eyes
at the wilderness of pretty things about them, mamma stepped up beside Effie, and holding her
hand fast to give her courage, told the story of the dream in a few simple words, ending in
this way:--

"So my little girl wanted to be a Christmas spirit too, and make this a happy day for those
who had not as many pleasures and comforts as she has. She likes surprises, and we planned
this for you all. She shall play the good fairy, and give each of you something from this tree,
after which every one will find her own name on a small tree, and can go to enjoy it in her
own way. March by, my dears, and let us fill your hands."

Nobody told them to do it, but all the hands were clapped heartily before a single child stirred;
then one by one they came to look up wonderingly at the pretty giver of the feast as she leaned
down to offer them great yellow oranges, red apples, bunches of grapes, bonbons, and cakes,
till all were gone, and a double row of smiling faces turned toward her as the children filed
back to their places in the orderly way they had been taught.

Then each was led to her own tree by the good ladies who had helped mamma with all their hearts;
and the happy hubbub that arose would have satisfied even Santa Claus himself,--shrieks of
joy, dances of delight, laughter and tears (for some tender little things could not bear so
much pleasure at once, and sobbed with mouths full of candy and hands full of toys). How they
ran to show one another the new treasures! how they peeped and tasted, pulled and pinched,
until the air was full of queer noises, the floor covered with papers, and the little trees
left bare of all but candles!

"I don't think heaven can be any gooder than this," sighed one small girl, as she looked about
her in a blissful maze, holding her full apron with one hand, while she luxuriously carried
sugar-plums to her mouth with the other.

"Is that a truly angel up there?" asked another, fascinated by the little white figure with
the wreath on its shining hair, who in some mysterious way had been the cause of all this merry-making.

"I wish I dared to go and kiss her for this splendid party," said a lame child, leaning on
her crutch, as she stood near the steps, wondering how it seemed to sit in a mother's lap,
as Effie was doing, while she watched the happy scene before her.

Effie heard her, and remembering Tiny Tim, ran down and put her arms about the pale child,
kissing the wistful face, as she said sweetly, "You may; but mamma deserves the thanks. She
did it all; I only dreamed about it."

Lame Katy felt as if "a truly angel" was embracing her, and could only stammer out her thanks,
while the other children ran to see the pretty spirit, and touch her soft dress, until she
stood in a crowd of blue gowns laughing as they held up their gifts for her to see and admire.

Mamma leaned down and whispered one word to the older girls; and suddenly they all took hands
to dance round Effie, singing as they skipped.

It was a pretty sight, and the ladies found it hard to break up the happy revel; but it was
late for small people, and too much fun is a mistake. So the girls fell into line, and marched
before Effie and mamma again, to say goodnight with such grateful little faces that the eyes
of those who looked grew dim with tears. Mamma kissed every one; and many a hungry childish
heart felt as if the touch of those tender lips was their best gift. Effie shook so many small
hands that her own tingled; and when Katy came she pressed a small doll into Effie's hand,
whispering, "You didn't have a single present, and we had lots. Do keep that; it's the prettiest
thing I got."

"I will," answered Effie, and held it fast until the last smiling face was gone, the surprise
all over, and she safe in her own bed, too tired and happy for anything but sleep.

"Mamma, it was a beautiful surprise, and I thank you so much! I don't see how you did it; but
I like it best of all the Christmases I ever had, and mean to make one every year. I had my
splendid big present, and here is the dear little one to keep for love of poor Katy; so even
that part of my wish came true."

And Effie fell asleep with a happy smile on her lips, her one humble gift still in her hand,
and a new love for Christmas in her heart that never changed through a long life spent in doing
good.

II.

THE CANDY COUNTRY.

"I shall take mamma's red sun-umbrella, it is so warm, and none of the children at school will
have one like it," said Lily, one day, as she went through the hall.

"The wind is very high; I'm afraid you'll be blown away if you carry that big thing," called
Nurse from the window, as the red umbrella went bobbing down the garden walk with a small girl
under it.

"I wish it would; I always wanted to go up in a balloon," answered Lily, as she struggled out
of the gate.

She got on very well till she came to the bridge and stopped to look over the railing at the
water running by so fast, and the turtles sunning themselves on the rocks. Lily was fond of
throwing stones at them; it was so funny to watch them tumble, heels over head, splash into
the water. Now, when she saw three big fellows close by, she stooped for a stone, and just
at that minute a gale of wind nearly took the umbrella out of her hand. She clutched it fast;
and away she went like a thistle-down, right up in the air, over river and hill, houses and
trees, faster and faster, till her head spun round, her breath was all gone, and she had to
let go. The dear red umbrella flew away like a leaf; and Lily fell down, down, till she went
crash into a tree which grew in such a curious place that she forgot her fright as she sat
looking about her, wondering what part of the world it could be.

The tree looked as if made of glass or colored sugar; for she could see through the red cherries,
the green leaves, and the brown branches. An agreeable smell met her nose; and she said at
once, as any child would, "I smell candy!" She picked a cherry and ate it. Oh, how good it
was!--all sugar and no stone. The next discovery was such a delightful one that she nearly
fell off her perch; for by touching her tongue here and there, she found that the whole tree
was made of candy. Think what fun to sit and break off twigs of barley sugar, candied cherries,
and leaves that tasted like peppermint and sassafras!

Lily rocked and ate till she finished the top of the little tree; then she climbed down and
strolled along, making more surprising and agreeable discoveries as she went.

What looked like snow under her feet was white sugar; the rocks were lumps of chocolate, the
flowers of all colors and tastes; and every sort of fruit grew on these delightful trees. Little
white houses soon appeared; and here lived the dainty candy-people, all made of the best sugar,
and painted to look like real people.

Dear little men and women, looking as if they had stepped off of wedding cakes and bonbons,
went about in their gay sugar clothes, laughing and talking in the sweetest voices. Bits of
babies rocked in open-work cradles, and sugar boys and girls played with sugar toys in the
most natural way. Carriages rolled along the jujube streets, drawn by the red and yellow barley
horses we all love so well; cows fed in the green fields, and sugar birds sang in the trees.

Lily listened, and in a moment she understood what the song said,--

  "Sweet! Sweet!
  Come, come and eat,
  Dear little girls
  With yellow curls;
  For here you'll find
  Sweets to your mind.
  On every tree
  Sugar-plums you'll see;
  In every dell
  Grows the caramel.
  Over every wall
  Gum-drops fall;
  Molasses flows
  Where our river goes
  Under your feet
  Lies sugar sweet;
  Over your head
  Grow almonds red.
  Our lily and rose
  Are not for the nose;
  Our flowers we pluck
  To eat or suck
  And, oh! what bliss
  When two friends kiss,
  For they honey sip
  From lip to lip!
  And all you meet,
  In house or street,
  At work or play,
  Sweethearts are they.
  So, little dear,
  Pray feel no fear;
  Go where you will;
  Eat, eat your fill.
  Here is a feast
  From west to east;
  And you can say,
  Ere you go away,
  'At last I stand
  In dear Candy-land,
  And no more can stuff;
  For once I've enough.'
  Sweet! Sweet!
  Tweet! Tweet!
  Tweedle-dee!
  Tweedle-dee!"

"That is the most interesting song I ever heard," said Lily, clapping her sticky hands and
dancing along toward a fine palace of white cream candy, with pillars of striped peppermint
stick, and a roof of frosting that made it look like the Milan Cathedral.

"I'll live here, and eat candy all day long, with no tiresome school or patchwork to spoil
my fun," said Lily.

So she ran up the chocolate steps into the pretty rooms, where all the chairs and tables were
of different colored candies, and the beds of spun sugar. A fountain of lemonade supplied drink;
and floors of ice-cream that never melted kept people and things from sticking together, as
they would have done had it been warm.

For a long while Lily was quite happy, going about tasting so many different kinds of sweeties,
talking to the little people, who were very amiable, and finding out curious things about them
and their country.

The babies were made of plain sugar, but the grown people had different flavors. The young
ladies were flavored with violet, rose, and orange; the gentlemen were apt to have cordials
of some sort inside of them, as she found when she ate one now and then slyly, and got her
tongue bitten by the hot, strong taste as a punishment The old people tasted of peppermint,
clove, and such comfortable things, good for pain; but the old maids had lemon, hoarhound,
flag-root, and all sorts of sour, bitter things in them, and did not get eaten much. Lily soon
learned to know the characters of her new friends by a single taste, and some she never touched
but once. The dear babies melted in her mouth, and the delicately flavored young ladies she
was very fond of. Dr. Ginger was called to her more than once when so much candy made her teeth
ache, and she found him a very hot- tempered little man; but he stopped the pain, so she was
glad to see him.

A lime-drop boy and a little pink checker-berry girl were her favorite playmates; and they
had fine times making mud-pies by scraping the chocolate rocks and mixing this dust with honey
from the wells near by. These they could eat; and Lily thought this much better than throwing
away the pies, as she had to do at home. They had candy-pulls very often, and made swings of
long loops of molasses candy, and bird's-nests with almond eggs, out of which came birds who
sang sweetly. They played football with big bull's-eyes, sailed in sugar boats on lakes of
syrup, fished in rivers of molasses, and rode the barley horses all over the country.

Lily discovered that it never rained, but snowed white sugar. There was no sun, as it would
have been too hot; but a large yellow lozenge made a nice moon, and red and white comfits were
the stars.

The people all lived on sugar, and never quarrelled. No one was ill; and if any got broken,
as sometimes happened with such brittle creatures, they just stuck the parts together and were
all right again. The way they grew old was to get thinner and thinner till there was danger
of their vanishing. Then the friends of the old person put him in a neat coffin, and carried
him to the great golden urn which stood in their largest temple, always full of a certain fine
syrup; and here he was dipped and dipped till he was stout and strong again, and went home
to enjoy himself for a long time as good as new.

This was very interesting to Lily, and she went to many funerals. But the weddings were better
still; for the lovely white brides were so sweet Lily longed to eat them. The feasts were delicious;
and everybody went in their best clothes, and danced at the ball till they got so warm half-a-dozen
would stick together and have to be taken to the ice-cream room to cool off. Then the little
pair would drive away in a fine carriage with white horses to a new palace in some other part
of the country, and Lily would have another pleasant place to visit.

But by and by, when she had seen everything, and eaten so much sweet stuff that at last she
longed for plain bread and butter, she began to get cross, as children always do when they
live on candy; and the little people wished she would go away, for they were afraid of her.
No wonder, when she would catch up a dear sugar baby and eat him, or break some respectable
old grandmamma all into bits because she reproved her for naughty ways. Lily calmly sat down
on the biggest church, crushing it flat, and even tried to poke the moon out of the sky in
a pet one day. The king ordered her to go home; but she said, "I won't!" and bit his head off,
crown and all.

Such a wail went up at this awful deed that she ran away out of the city, fearing some one
would put poison in her candy, since she had no other food.

"I suppose I shall get somewhere if I keep walking; and I can't starve, though I hate the sight
of this horrid stuff," she said to herself, as she hurried over the mountains of Gibraltar
Rock that divided the city of Saccharissa from the great desert of brown sugar that lay beyond.

Lily marched bravely on for a long time, and saw at last a great smoke in the sky, smelt a
spicy smell, and felt a hot wind blowing toward her.

"I wonder if there are sugar savages here, roasting and eating some poor traveller like me,"
she said, thinking of Robinson Crusoe and other wanderers in strange lands.

She crept carefully along till she saw a settlement of little huts very like mushrooms, for
they were made of cookies set on lumps of the brown sugar; and queer people, looking as if
made of gingerbread, were working very busily round several stoves which seemed to bake at
a great rate.

"I'll creep nearer and see what sort of people they are before I show myself," said Lily, going
into a grove of spice-trees, and sitting down on a stone which proved to be the plummy sort
of cake we used to call Brighton Rock.

Presently one of the tallest men came striding toward the trees with a pan, evidently after
spice; and before she could run, he saw Lily.

"Hollo, what do you want?" he asked, staring at her with his black currant eyes, while he briskly
picked the bark off a cinnamon-tree.

"I'm travelling, and would like to know what place this is, if you please," answered Lily,
very politely, being a little frightened.

"Cake-land. Where do you come from?" asked the gingerbread man, in a crisp tone of voice.

"I was blown into the Candy country, and have been there a long time; but I got tired of it,
and ran away to find something better."

"Sensible child!" and the man smiled till Lily thought his cheeks would crumble. "You'll get
on better here with us Brownies than with the lazy Bonbons, who never work and are all for
show. They won't own us, though we are all related through our grandparents Sugar and Molasses.
We are busy folks; so they turn up their noses and don't speak when we meet at parties. Poor
creatures, silly and sweet and unsubstantial! I pity 'em."

"Could I make you a visit? I'd like to see how you live, and what you do. I'm sure it must
be interesting," said Lily, picking herself up after a tumble, having eaten nearly all the
stone, she was so hungry.

"I know you will. Come on! I can talk while I work." And the funny gingerbread man trotted
off toward his kitchen, full of pans, rolling- pins, and molasses jugs.

"Sit down. I shall be at leisure as soon as this batch is baked. There are still some wise
people down below who like gingerbread, and I have my hands full," he said, dashing about,
stirring, rolling out, and slapping the brown dough into pans, which he whisked into the oven
and out again so fast that Lily knew there must be magic about it somewhere.

Every now and then he threw her a delicious cooky warm from the oven. She liked the queer fellow,
and presently began to talk, being very curious about this country.

"What is your name, sir?"

"Ginger Snap."

Lily thought it a good one; for he was very quick, and she fancied he could be short and sharp
if he liked.

"Where does all this cake go to?" she asked, after watching the other kitchens full of workers,
who were all of different kinds of cake, and each set of cooks made its own sort.

"I'll show you by and by," answered Snap, beginning to pile up the heaps of gingerbread on
a little car that ran along a track leading to some unknown storeroom, Lily thought.

"Don't you get tired of doing this all the time?"

"Yes; but I want to be promoted, and I never shall be till I've done my best, and won the prize
here."

"Oh, tell me about it! What is the prize, and how are you promoted? Is this a cooking-school?"

"Yes; the prize for best gingerbread is a cake of condensed yeast. That puts a soul into me,
and I begin to rise till I am able to go over the hills yonder into the blessed land of bread,
and be one of the happy creatures who are always wholesome, always needed, and without which
the world below would be in a bad way."

"Bless me! that is the queerest thing I've heard yet. But I don't wonder you want to go; I'm
tired of sweets myself, and long for a good piece of bread, though I used to want cake and
candy at home."

"Ah, my dear, you'll learn a good deal here; and you are lucky not to have got into the clutches
of Giant Dyspepsia, who always gets people if they eat too much of such rubbish and scorn wholesome
bread. I leave my ginger behind when I go, and get white and round and beautiful, as you will
see. The Gingerbread family have never been as foolish as some of the other cakes. Wedding
is the worst; such extravagance in the way of wine and spice and fruit I never saw, and such
a mess to eat when it's done! I don't wonder people get sick; serves 'em right." And Snap flung
down a pan with such a bang that it made Lily jump.

"Sponge cake isn't bad, is it? Mamma lets me eat it, but I like frosted pound better," she
said, looking over to the next kitchen, where piles of that sort of cake were being iced.

"Poor stuff. No substance. Ladies' fingers will do for babies, but pound has too much butter
ever to be healthy. Let it alone, and eat cookies or seed-cakes, my dear. Now, come along;
I'm ready." And Snap trundled away his car-load at a great pace.

Lily ran behind to pick up whatever fell, and looked about her as she went, for this was certainly
a very queer country. Lakes of eggs all beaten up, and hot springs of saleratus foamed here
and there ready for use. The earth was brown sugar or ground spice; and the only fruits were
raisins, dried currants, citron, and lemon peel. It was a very busy place; for every one cooked
all the time, and never failed and never seemed tired, though they got so hot that they only
wore sheets of paper for clothes. There were piles of it to put over the cake, so that it shouldn't
burn; and they made cook's white caps and aprons of it, and looked very nice. A large clock
made of a flat pancake, with cloves to mark the hours and two toothpicks for hands, showed
them how long to bake things; and in one place an ice wall was built round a lake of butter,
which they cut in lumps as they wanted it.

"Here we are. Now, stand away while I pitch 'em down," said Snap, stopping at last before a
hole in the ground where a dumbwaiter hung ready, with a name over it.

There were many holes all round, and many waiters, each with its name; and Lily was amazed
when she read "Weber," "Copeland," "Dooling," and others, which she knew very well.

Over Snap's place was the name "Newmarch;" and Lily said, "Why, that's where mamma gets her
hard gingerbread, and Weber's is where we go for ice- cream. Do you make cake for them?"

"Yes, but no one knows it. It's one of the secrets of the trade. We cook for all the confectioners,
and people think the good things come out of the cellars under their saloons. Good joke, isn't
it?" And Snap laughed till a crack came in his neck and made him cough.

Lily was so surprised she sat down on a warm queen's cake that happened to be near, and watched
Snap send down load after load of gingerbread to be eaten by children, who would have liked
it much better if they had only known where it came from, as she did.

As she sat, the clatter of many spoons, the smell of many dinners, and the sound of many voices
calling, "One vanilla, two strawberries, and a Charlotte Russe," "Three stews, cup coffee,
dry toast," "Roast chicken and apple without," came up the next hole, which was marked "Copeland."

"Dear me! it seems as if I was there," said Lily, longing to hop down, but afraid of the bump
at the other end.

"I'm done. Come along, I'll ride you back," called Snap, tossing the last cooky after the dumb-waiter
as it went slowly out of sight with its spicy load.

"I wish you'd teach me to cook. It looks great fun, and mamma wants me to learn; only our cook
hates to have me mess round, and is so cross that I don't like to try at home," said Lily,
as she went trundling back.

"Better wait till you get to Bread-land, and learn to make that. It's a great art, and worth
knowing. Don't waste your time on cake, though plain gingerbread isn't bad to have in the house.
I'll teach you that in a jiffy, if the clock doesn't strike my hour too soon," answered Snap,
helping her down.

"What hour?"

"Why, of my freedom. I never know when I've done my task till I'm called by the chimes and
go to get my soul," said Snap, turning his currant eyes anxiously to the clock.

"I hope you will have time." And Lily fell to work with all her might, after Snap had put on
her a paper apron and a cap like his.

It was not hard; for when she was going to make a mistake a spark flew out of the fire and
burnt her in time to remind her to look at the receipt, which was a sheet of gingerbread in
a frame of pie-crust hung up before her, with the directions written while it was soft and
baked in. The third sheet she made came out of the oven spicy, light, and brown; and Snap,
giving it one poke, said, "That's all right. Now you know. Here's your reward"

He handed her a receipt-book made of thin sheets of sugar-gingerbread held together by a gelatine
binding, with her name stamped on the back, and each leaf crimped with a cake-cutter in the
most elegant manner.

Lily was charmed with it, but had no time to read all it contained; for just then the clock
began to strike, and a chime of bells to ring,--

  "Gingerbread,
  Go to the head.
  Your task is done;
  A soul is won.
  Take it and go
  Where muffins grow,
  Where sweet loaves rise
  To the very skies,
  And biscuits fair
  Perfume the air.
  Away, away!
  Make no delay;
  In the sea of flour
  Plunge this hour.
  Safe in your breast
  Let the yeast-cake rest,
  Till you rise in joy,
  A white bread boy!"

"Ha, ha! I'm free! I'm free!" cried Snap, catching up the silver-covered square that seemed
to fall from heaven; and running to a great white sea of flour, he went in head first, holding
the yeast-cake clasped to his breast as if his life depended on it.

Lily watched breathlessly, while a curious working and bubbling went on, as if Snap was tumbling
about down there like a small earthquake. The other cake-folk stood round the shore with her;
for it was a great event, and all were glad that the dear fellow was promoted so soon. Suddenly
a cry was heard, and up rose a beautiful white figure on the farther side of the sea. It moved
its hand, as if saying "Good-by," and ran over the hills so fast they had only time to see
how plump and fair he was, with a little knob on the top of his head like a crown.

"He's gone to the happy land, and we shall miss him; but we'll follow his example and soon
find him again," said a gentle Sponge cake, with a sigh, as all went back to their work; while
Lily hurried after Snap, eager to see the new country, which was the best of all.

A delicious odor of fresh bread blew up from the valley as she stood on the hill-top and looked
down on the peaceful scene below. Fields of yellow grain waved in the breeze; hop-vines grew
from tree to tree; and many windmills whirled their white sails as they ground the different
grains into fresh, sweet meal, for the loaves of bread that built the houses like bricks and
paved the streets, or in many shapes formed the people, furniture, and animals. A river of
milk flowed through the peaceful land, and fountains of yeast rose and fell with a pleasant
foam and fizz. The ground was a mixture of many meals, and the paths were golden Indian, which
gave a very gay look to the scene. Buckwheat flowers bloomed on their rosy stems, and tall
corn-stalks rustled their leaves in the warm air that came from the ovens hidden in the hillsides;
for bread needs a slow fire, and an obliging volcano did the baking here.

"What a lovely place!" cried Lily, feeling the charm of the homelike landscape, in spite of
the funny plump people moving about.

Two of these figures came running to meet her as she slowly walked down the yellow path from
the hill. One was a golden boy, with a beaming face; the other a little girl in a shiny brown
cloak, who looked as if she would taste very nice. They each put a warm hand into Lily's, and
the boy said,--

"We are glad to see you. Muffin told us you were coming."

"Thank you. Who is Muffin?" asked Lily, feeling as if she had seen both these little people
before, and liked them.

"He was Ginger Snap once, but he's a Muffin now. We begin in that way, and work up to the perfect
loaf by degrees. My name is Johnny Cake, and she's Sally Lunn. You know us; so come on and
have a race."

Lily burst out laughing at the idea of playing with these old friends of hers; and all three
ran away as fast as they could tear, down the hill, over a bridge, into the middle of the village,
where they stopped, panting, and sat down on some very soft rolls to rest.

"What do you all do here?" asked Lily, when she got her breath again.

"We farm, we study, we bake, we brew, and are as merry as grigs all day long. It's school-time
now, and we must go; will you come?" said Sally, jumping up as if she liked it.

"Our schools are not like yours; we only study two things,--grain and yeast. I think you'll
like it. We have yeast to-day, and the experiments are very jolly," added Johnny, trotting
off to a tall brown tower of rye and Indian bread, where the school was kept.

Lily never liked to go to school, but she was ashamed to own it; so she went along with Sally,
and was so amused with all she saw that she was glad she came. The brown loaf was hollow, and
had no roof; and when she asked why they used a ruin, Sally told her to wait and see why they
chose strong walls and plenty of room overhead. All round was a circle of very small biscuits
like cushions, and on these the Bread-children sat. A square loaf in the middle was the teacher's
desk, and on it lay an ear of wheat, with several bottles of yeast well corked up. The teacher
was a pleasant, plump lady from Vienna, very wise, and so famous for her good bread that she
was a Professor of Grainology.

When all were seated, she began with the wheat ear, and told them all about it in such an interesting
way that Lily felt as if she had never known anything about the bread she ate before. The experiments
with the yeast were quite exciting,--for Fraulein Pretzel showed them how it would work till
it blew the cork out, and go fizzing up to the sky if it was kept too long; how it would turn
sour or flat, and spoil the bread if care was not taken to use it just at the right moment;
and how too much would cause the loaf to rise till there was no substance to it.

The children were very bright; for they were fed on the best kinds of oatmeal and Graham bread,
with very little white bread or hot cakes to spoil their young stomachs. Hearty, happy boys
and girls they were, and their yeasty souls were very lively in them; for they danced and sung,
and seemed as bright and gay as if acidity, heaviness, and mould were quite unknown.

Lily was very happy with them, and when school was done went home with Sally and ate the best
bread and milk for dinner that she ever tasted. In the afternoon Johnny took her to the cornfield,
and showed her how they kept the growing ears free from mildew and worms. Then she went to
the bakehouse; and here she found her old friend Muffin hard at work making Parker House rolls,
for he was such a good cook he was set to work at once on the lighter kinds of bread.

"Well, isn't this better than Candy-land or Saccharissa?" he asked, as he rolled and folded
his bits of dough with a dab of butter tucked inside.

"Ever so much!" cried Lily. "I feel better already, and mean to learn all I can. Mamma will
be so pleased if I can make good bread when I go home. She is rather old-fashioned, and likes
me to be a nice housekeeper. I didn't think bread interesting then, but I do now; and Johnny's
mother is going to teach me to make Indian cakes to-morrow."

"Glad to hear it. Learn all you can, and tell other people how to make healthy bodies and happy
souls by eating good plain food. Not like this, though these rolls are better than cake. I
have to work my way up to the perfect loaf, you know; and then, oh, then, I'm a happy thing."

"What happens then? Do you go on to some other wonderful place?" asked Lily, as Muffin paused
with a smile on his face.

"Yes; I am eaten by some wise, good human being, and become a part of him or her. That is immortality
and heaven; for I may nourish a poet and help him sing, or feed a good woman who makes the
world better for being in it, or be crumbed into the golden porringer of a baby prince who
is to rule a kingdom. Isn't that a noble way to live, and an end worth working for?" asked
Muffin, in a tone that made Lily feel as if some sort of fine yeast had got into her, and was
setting her brain to work with new thoughts.

"Yes, it is. I suppose all common things are made for that purpose, if we only knew it; and
people should be glad to do anything to help the world along, even making good bread in a kitchen,"
answered Lily, in a sober way that showed that her little mind was already digesting the new
food it had got.

She stayed in Bread-land a long time, and enjoyed and learned a great deal that she never forgot.
But at last, when she had made the perfect loaf, she wanted to go home, that her mother might
see and taste it.

"I've put a good deal of myself into it, and I'd love to think I had given her strength or
pleasure by my work," she said, as she and Sally stood looking at the handsome loaf.

"You can go whenever you like; just take the bread in your hands and wish three times, and
you'll be wherever you say. I'm sorry to have you go, but I don't wonder you want to see your
mother. Don't forget what you have learned, and you will always be glad you came to us," said
Sally, kissing her good-by.

"Where is Muffin? I can't go without seeing him, my dear old friend," answered Lily, looking
round for him.

"He is here," said Sally, touching the loaf. "He was ready to go, and chose to pass into your
bread rather than any other; for he said he loved you and would be glad to help feed so good
a little girl."

"How kind of him! I must be careful to grow wise and excellent, else he will be disappointed
and have died in vain," said Lily, touched by his devotion.

Then, bidding them all farewell, she hugged her loaf close, wished three times to be in her
own home, and like a flash she was there.

Whether her friends believed the wonderful tale of her adventures I cannot tell; but I know
that she was a nice little housekeeper from that day, and made such good bread that other girls
came to learn of her. She also grew from a sickly, fretful child into a fine, strong woman,
because she ate very little cake and candy, except at Christmas time, when the oldest and the
wisest love to make a short visit to Candy-land.

III.

NAUGHTY JOCKO.

"A music-man! a music-man! Run quick, and see if he has got a monkey on his organ," cried little
Neddy, running to the window in a great hurry one day.

Yes; there was the monkey in his blue and red suit, with a funny little cap, and the long tail
trailing behind. But he didn't seem to be a lively monkey; for he sat in a bunch, with his
sad face turned anxiously to his master, who kept pulling the chain to make him dance. The
stiff collar had made his neck sore; and when the man twitched, the poor thing moaned and put
up his little hand to hold the chain. He tried to dance, but was so weak he could only hop
a few steps, and stop panting for breath. The cruel man wouldn't let him rest till Neddy called
out,--

"Don't hurt him; let him come up here and get this cake, and rest while you play. I've got
some pennies for you."

So poor Jocko climbed slowly up the trellis, and sat on the window-ledge trying to eat; but
he was so tired he went to sleep, and when the man pulled to wake him up, he slipped and fell,
and lay as if he were dead. Neddy and his aunt ran down to see if he was killed. The cross
man scolded and shook him; but he never moved, and the man said,--

"He is dead. I don't want him. I will sell him to some one to stuff."

"No; his heart beats a little. Leave him here a few days, and we will take care of him; and
if he gets well, perhaps we will buy him," said Aunt Jane, who liked to nurse even a sick monkey.

The man said he was going on for a week through the towns near by, and would call and see about
it when he came back. Then he went away; and Neddy and aunty put Jocko in a nice basket, and
carried him in. The minute the door was shut and he felt safe, the sly fellow peeped out with
one eye, and seeing only the kind little boy began to chatter and kick off the shawl; for he
was not much hurt, only tired and hungry, and dreadfully afraid of the cruel man who beat and
starved him.

Neddy was delighted, and thought it very funny, and helped his aunt take off the stiff collar
and put some salve on the sore neck. Then they got milk and cake; and when he had eaten a good
dinner, Jocko curled himself up and slept till the next day. He was quite lively in the morning;
for when Aunt Jane went to call Neddy, Jocko was not in his basket, and looking round the room
for him, she saw the little black thing lying on the boy's pillow, with his arm round Neddy's
neck like a queer baby.

"My patience! I can't allow that," said the old lady, and went to pull Jocko out. But he slipped
away like an eel, and crept chattering and burrowing down to the bottom of the bed, holding
on to Neddy's toes, till he waked up, howling that crabs were nipping him.

Then they had a great frolic; and Jocko climbed all over the bed, up on the tall wardrobe,
and the shelf over the door, where the image of an angel stood. He patted it, and hugged it,
and looked so very funny with his ugly black face by the pretty white one, that Neddy rolled
on the floor, and Aunt Jane laughed till her glasses flew off. By and by he came down, and
had a nice breakfast, and let them tie a red ribbon over the bandage on his neck. He liked
the gay color, and kept going to look in the glass, and grin and chatter at his own image,
which he evidently admired.

"Now, he shall go to walk with me, and all the children shall see my new pet," said Neddy,
as he marched off with Jock on his shoulder.

Every one laughed at the funny little fellow with his twinkling eyes, brown hands, and long
tail, and Neddy felt very grand till they got to the store; then troubles began. He put Jocko
on a table near the door, and told him to stay there while he did his errands. Now, close by
was the place where the candy was kept, and Jocko loved sweeties like any girl; so he hopped
along, and began to eat whatever he liked. Some boys tried to stop him; and then he got angry
at them for pulling his tail, and threw handfuls of sugarplums at them. That was great fun;
and the more they laughed and scrambled and poked at him, the faster he showered chocolates,
caramels, and peppermints over them, till it looked as if it had rained candy. The man was
busy with Neddy at the other end of the store; but when he heard the noise, both ran to see
what was the matter. Neither of them could stop naughty Jocko, who liked this game, and ran
up on the high shelves among the toys. Then down came little tubs and dolls' stoves, tin trumpets
and cradles, while boxes of leaden soldiers and whole villages flew through the air, smash,
bang, rattle, bump, all over the floor. The man scolded, Neddy cried, the boys shouted, and
there was a lively time in that shop till a good slapping with a long stick made Jock tumble
into a tub of water where some curious fishes lived, and then they caught him.

Neddy was much ashamed, and told the man his aunt would pay for all the broken things. Then
he took his naughty pet, and started to go home and tie him up, for it was plain this monkey
was not to be trusted. But as soon as they got out, Jocko ran up a tree and dropped on to a
load of hay passing underneath. Here he danced and pranced, and had a fine time, throwing off
the man's coat and rake, and eating some of the dinner tied up in a cloth. The crusts of bread
and the bones he threw at the horse; this new kind of whip frightened the horse, and he ran
away down a steep hill, and upset the hay and broke the cart. Oh, such a time! It was worse
than the candy scrape; for the man swore, and the horse was hurt, and people said the monkey
ought to be shot, he did so much mischief. Jocko didn't care a bit; he sat high up in a tree,
and chattered and scolded, and swung by his tail, and was so droll that people couldn't help
laughing at him. Poor Neddy cried again, and went home to tell his troubles to Aunt Jane, fearing
that it would take all the money in his bank to pay for the damage the bad monkey had done
in one hour.

As soon as he was alone Jocko came skipping along, and jumped on his back, and peeped at him,
and patted his cheeks, and was so cunning and good Neddy couldn't whip him; but he shut him
up in a closet to punish him.

Jocko was tired; so he went to sleep, and all was quiet till dinner-time. They were ready for
the pudding, and Neddy had saved a place for a good plateful, as he liked snow-pudding, when
shrieks were heard in the kitchen, and Mary the maid rushed in to say,--

"Oh, ma'am, that horrid beast has spoilt the pudding, and is scaring Katy out of her life!"

They all ran; and there sat that naughty monkey on the table, throwing the nice white snow
all over poor cook, till her face looked as if she was ready to be shaved. His own face looked
the same, for he had eaten all he wanted while the pudding stood cooling in the pantry. He
had crept out of a window in the closet, and had a fine rummage among the sugar-buckets, butter-boxes,
and milk-pans.

Kate wailed, and Mary scolded; but Aunt Jane and grandpa laughed, and Neddy chased Jock into
the garden with the broom. They had to eat bread and jelly for dessert, and it took the girls
a long time to clear up the mess the rascal made.

"We will put his collar and chain on again, and keep him tied up all the time till the man
comes," said Aunt Jane.

"But I can't catch him," sighed Neddy, watching the little imp whisk about in the garden among
the currant-bushes, chasing hens and tossing green apples round in high glee.

"Sit quietly down somewhere and wait till he is tired; then he will come to you, and you can
hold him fast," said Aunt Jane.

So Neddy waited; and though he was much worried at his new pet's naughtiness, he enjoyed his
pranks like a boy.

Grandpa took naps in the afternoon on the piazza, and he was dozing comfortably when Jocko
swung down from the grape-vine by his long tail, and tickled the old gentleman on the nose
with a straw. Grandpa sneezed, and opened one eye to brush away the fly as he supposed. Then
he went to sleep again, and Jocko dropped a caterpillar on his bald head; this made him open
the other eye to see what that soft, creepy thing could be. Neddy couldn't help laughing, for
he often wanted to do just such things, but never dared, because grandpa was a very stern old
gentleman, and no one took liberties with him. Jocko wasn't afraid, however; and presently
he crept to the table, stole the glasses lying there, put them on, and taking up the paper
held it before him, chattering as if he were reading it, as he had seen people do. Neddy laughed
out loud at this, and clapped his hands, Jocko looked so like a little old man, in spite of
the tail curled up behind. This time grandpa opened both eyes at once, and stared as if he
saw a hobgoblin before him; then he snatched off the spectacles, and caught up his cane, crying
angrily,--

"You rascal, how dare you!"

But Jocko tossed the paper in his face, and with one jump lighted on the back of old Tom, the
big yellow cat, who lay asleep close by. Scared half out of his wits, Tom spit and bounced;
but Jocko held fast to his collar, and had a fine race round the garden, while the girls laughed
at the funny sight, and Neddy shouted, "It's a circus; and there's the monkey and the pony."
Even grandpa smiled, especially when puss dashed up a tree, and Jock tumbled off. He chased
him, and they had a great battle; but Tom's claws were sharp, and the monkey got a scratch
on the nose, and ran crying to Neddy for comfort.

"Now, you naughty fellow, I'll chain you up, and stop these dreadful tricks. But you are great
fun, and I can't whip you," said the boy; for he knew what it was to enjoy a holiday, and poor
Jocko had not had one for a long time.

Jocko ate some lunch, took a nap in the grass, and then was ready for more frolics. Neddy had
fastened him to a tree in the garden, so that he could enjoy the sun and air, and catch grasshoppers
if he liked. But Jocko wanted something more; and presently Neddy, who was reading in his hammock
on the piazza, heard a great cackling among the hens, and looked up to see the monkey swinging
by his tail from a bough, holding the great cock-a- doodle by his splendid tail, while all
the twenty hens clucked and cackled with wrath and fear at such a dreadful prank.

"Now, that's too bad; I will slap him this time," said Neddy, running to save his handsome
bird from destruction. But before he got there poor cocky had pulled his fine tail-feathers
all out in his struggles, and when set free was so frightened and mortified that he ran away
and hid in the bushes, and the hens went to comfort him.

Neddy gave Jocko a good whipping, and left him looking as meek as a baby, all cuddled up in
a little bunch, with his head in his hands as if crying for his naughtiness. But he wasn't
sorry. Oh, dear, no! for in half an hour he had picked every one of the sweet peas Aunt Jane
was so fond of, thrown all the tomatoes over the fence, and let the parrot out of his cage.
The sight of Polly walking into the parlor with a polite "How are you, ma'am?" sent Aunt Jane
to see what was going on. Neddy was fast asleep in the hammock, worn out with his cares; and
Jocko, having unhooked his chain, was sitting on the chimney-top of a neighbor's house, eating
corn.

"We shall not live to the end of the week if this sort of thing goes on. I don't know what
to do with the little beast; he's as bad as an elephant to take care of," said the poor lady,
in despair, as she saw Jocko throw his corncob down on the minister's hat as that stately gentleman
went by.

As none of them could catch him, Miss Jane let him alone till Neddy waked up and could go and
find some of the big boys to help him.

Jocko soon left the roof, and skipped in at a window that stood open. The term'sour-dough'is another western
word. It was first used to denote the light bread baked by the cow-waggon cook, though the bread
is usually excellent. A later use of'sour-dough'is as a title for newly arrived miners in the
arctic goldfields of the Klondyke.

When the camping-ground is reached, a wide canvas is stretched over
the cow-waggon; this spreads out on all sides, and is a shade'now
a weary land'for the tired puncher.

Cattle are on the move at sunrise, and it behoves the cow-boy to be
also on the alert.

The sun, coming up over the great stretches of plain, gives a similar impression to that of a sunrise at
sea.

If the round-up is in Alberta, the grass is fragrant with wild flowers,
especially the dwarf-rose, and the morning air is melodious with
bird-songs.

The'puncher'comes out from his blankets and scans the hundreds of
cattle dotted here and there in the shadow of the foot-hills.

Presently an animal stretches out its hind legs and comes clumsily to
its feet; others follow, and the herds are soon busily cropping the
dew-laden grass.

The puncher looks at his r-2 and his horse, sniffs the aroma of coffee,
and promptly answers to the call of'Grub.'there is a flourish of tin
plates and cups, and of iron-handled knives and forks, and a rapid
disappearance of the'chuck.'then to horse and the duties of the day.

The'outfit'is packed. The cook hitches up the horses and starts for the
next camping-ground. The cow-boys pursue their business of'cutting
out;'cattle, with tails valiantly erect, snorting defiance, rush by the'cow-waggon,'which,
unmoved amid this mimic war, goes lurching over the plain. Like many
other institutions of the West, the cow-waggon will, in a few years,
be a thing of the past.

Wire fences, and the enclosure of the pasturelands, are getting rid
of the need for it.

The broken PROMISE.'i don't want any tea,'said Roger, as he pulled off
his muddy boots, with a very sulky expression.'i suppose that is
always the way with a fellow's mother. Fuss and bother-- I'm tied to
her apron-strings.

Opening his paper he looked at him over the top of it, with a rather
grave expression.'don't you think it is silly, Uncle?''what's it
all about?'asked Great-uncle James.'why, i just happened to be a bit
late home, after the match.

Saunders wanted me to see his rabbits, and it made me a little late;
at least, it was really a lot late.

There were some other fellows there, and i came away before most
of them.''well?''well, in there is no end of a bother, because i sort
of promised i would be home early to tea.

The girls had got some friends coming, and wanted me to show off the
magic-lantern.

When i came in, Mother was crying, and the servant out looking for me. It's too silly! i'm not a baby!'and
Roger plunged his spoon afresh into his egg, as if he expected to find
in it a remedy for his grievance.'Jones minor says his mother is
just the same; but the two Rhodeses, who live with an aunt, can do
just as they like.'Uncle James laid down his paper, and looked steadily
at the fire.'my mother was just the same,'he said.'what, Granny?'exclaimed
Roger.'but she is so jolly.

When i go to stay, i do what i like.''did you ever hear, Roger,'asked
Uncle James,'about my sister Phyllis?''Who died when she was a little
girl? oh, yes, i have heard a little, of course.

Tell me some more, please, Uncle.'Uncle James's kind face was a little
clouded.'can he be vexed?'wondered thoughtless Roger.'or else-- oh,
yes-- it's because she died that he doesn't like talking about her.'he
said aloud,'never mind, Uncle, if it makes you feel bad.''she was
very dear to me,'Uncle James said.'yet i scarcely ever speak of her;
you will understand why, when i have finished what i am going to tell
you.

There were three of us,'he began,'your mother, myself, and our little
Phyllis. She was the youngest, and was nine at the time. We lived in
a small house in this town, for our parents were not rich.'Roger
nodded.'Mother showed me that house.

It's smaller than this, a good deal.''your mother, who was my mother's
right hand, had been sent to a boarding-school at a distance, and
i was left, in a way, in charge of my mother and young sister, my
father being abroad with his regiment.

You may be sure i felt proud of myself when i went round at night,
bolting the doors and windows, and putting out the lights.

And i generally ran home as quick as i could from the day-school i
went to.

Phyllis would be at the door, with her little pale face beaming,
and brimming over with questions about my games and successes.'well,
one Saturday afternoon, i was to play for the school in a football
match; i was a good runner, and strong for my size, though i was quite
a little chap.

I remember being very much annoyed with my mother for saying i had
better not play, as i had had a cold.

I had caught it from Phyllis, we thought; but, as i was a robust
lad, it was soon thrown off.

But my sister-- she was always delicate-- still had a cough, and
seemed dull and had headache.

Of course i laughed at my mother's fears, took my football jersey
from before the fire-- she had washed it, and was just as particular
about airing as your mother is-- fussy, you would say-- and off i
went, in high spirits.'"i won't be late," i called from the door.'"no,
be quick home, there's my dear boy," my mother said; and Phyllis,
who was lying on the sofa, looked up for a minute with, "Play up, Jim.

Mind you win the match."'but mother followed me to the door.'"Jim,"
she said, speaking low, "i don't feel easy about Phyllis.

She is feverish
to-day.

I think you had better call and ask Dr. Harris to come."'"oh, Mother,"
i said, "she will be all right! my cold was just as bad while it lasted.

You shouldn't fret about nothing." i had got into the way of giving
her a good deal of advice.'"i wish i could think so," she said, anxiously;
"but, anyway, Jim, just run in on your way to the ground, and tell
him.

Then
he will come before he starts on his round."'"all right," i replied,
with a hasty kiss, and off i went.'in the next street i fell in with
another fellow, who was in a great hurry.'"i say, old chap, we shall
be late," he panted, as we dashed into a little cut for the playing-field.'i
wish, Roger, that i could comfort myself by saying that I forgot my
mother's request.

But as i turned that corner i saw the doctor's house, and think of it at once. "but, then," i
said to myself, "she is only fussing.

Phyllis will be all right in the morning, and i dare say the doctor
has gone out.

It will do just as well after the game."'for the rest of the afternoon's pleasure, i never gave
a second's thought to my mother and sister.''there,'said Roger, triumphantly,'you
were just as bad as i, weren't you? and how did the match go on?
did you win?''Roger, from that day to this, i have never tried to
remember how that game ended.

At the end, two of the fellows who lived
the other side of the town asked me home to tea with the rest of
the team.

I felt it hard to be the only one who was out of everything, so i went. I felt a little uncomfortable,
and called at the abortionist's, just to satisfy my mother, and he came into the hall to speak
to me.'"anything wrong, my boy? not Phyllis, i hope?" he said. Phyllis was a pet of his. He attended her
pretty often.'"just a cold, sir," i said, easily; "nothing serious.

Mother's fidgeting, and says she is feverish, and all that.

You might call round some time."'"i will come with you at once,"
said Dr. Harris, and he took his hat off the peg.

I thought he was glad of my company, and gave him a vivid account
of the match on the way.'when we reached our street the hall was dark,
and there was no light in the little front sitting-room.

But the bedroom overhead was lighted, and the blind was pushed back as we
reached the door. The next thing i saw was my mother's face.

Shall i ever forget it?''Don't tell it, Uncle,'said Roger.'i can guess.''she had been waiting for
the doctor. It never occurred to her that i would neglect her message.
They let me see my sister for a few minutes, before she died.

A few hours, the doctor said, might have saved her life. There! that's all!'Uncle James blew his nose
vigorously, and went back to his paper; but Roger bent his head over
his plate. At this point his mother came in. The boy jumped up impetuously.'Mother
dear, i am awfully sorry i broke my promise, i will never do it again,
if i can help it-- never, so long as i live!'the GIANT of the TREASURE
CAVES.

(continued from page 359.) they walked up the avenue, with Estelle between
them, and Lord Lynwood received some answers to his many questions.

He thought it was more of a help to talk about things which took Jack's mind off his trouble,
than to dwell on it, and unnerve him for the interview. He wished also to show that he had the
greatest respect for a man who could go manfully through the ordeal
to which poor Jack had pledged himself.

At the end of the avenue, just before it widened into the broad sweep
in front of the Moat House, was an opening in the thick laurel and
rhododendron shrubbery, which, as they passed it, enabled Estelle
to see that Aunt Betty-- the dear Aunt Betty she was so longing to
see-- was on the lawn, cutting roses.

Without a word, she broke away from her companions and flew across the lawn.'Wright,'exclaimed
Lord Lynwood, hastily following;'my aunt has been seriously ill with
anxiety about my little girl, and we are afraid of a sudden shock
for her.

Come, we may be wanted.'Estelle, unconscious of all but that Aunt
Betty was there, was calling out in glad tones which made the little
old woman turn hastily.

Fortunately, joy does not often kill. Though faint and unable to stand the first excitement, Aunt
Betty recovered herself more quickly than Lord Lynwood could have
expected.

Jack thought he had never seen anybody quite like Aunt Betty-- he had not known that any such
existed. He had made up his mind to tell the truth about himself to
Estelle's aunt, but now that he saw her he did not feel the shrinking
he had anticipated.'she would understand,'was the way he expressed it.

Lord Lynwood, fearful of over-excitement for her, insisted on Lady Coke going into the house with
Estelle.

She consented, after making Jack promise to come and relate to her
all the wonderful things which had happened in those long months of
Estelle's absence.'Auntie,'said Estelle, as she sat on a low stool--
low enough to let her look up into the face of her aunt, lying on
her sofa--'if I have a lot to tell you, you must have a great deal
to tell me; and, chiefly, why it is you look like that.

Are you sick?''i have been, with grief and anxiety about you, Estelle.

But i shall get quite strong now you are at home again. I don't know how
to be grateful enough to the good God who has guarded you from harm
all this long time, and to the kind cohort who have been such friends
in need.''and have taught me such a lot of things, Auntie.

You must meet goody some day, and then you will know what a dear she
is, and how good she is.

She has been such a mother to me! and Auntie,'she continued, with some
hesitation,'Jack is going to tell you something by-and-by, something
which has made him dreadfully miserable.

And if you are grateful to him and to his mother for all they have done for me, you can repay
some of it by helping him in his trouble. Father says it is not necessary
for everybody to know; only ourselves, and those whom Jack has bound
himself to tell.'thus estelle prepared the way for the confession
which took place that evening.

By dint of great persuasion, Lord Lynwood made Jack put off speaking
to peet till the next night.

He was to
sleep at moat House that night, and in the morning the explanation with Peet would take point. Aunt Betty
was greatly touched by the story.

Jack related
the finding of Estelle, her dangerous illness, and the opinion of the doctor with regard to
her memory, which had been fully justified. He made light of the
rescue in the cave, the truth and full details of which Estelle told
later on.

Lady Coke listened with a heart full of thankfulness for the mercies which
had shielded her child. So it came to pass that Jack, resolute in
his idea of duty, found a very tender, sympathetic listener to his
own sad history.'your mother must be a good woman, Jack,'she said.'she
has been the saving of me,'he answered.'hers has been the purest,
the most unselfish love in the world.''yes,'said Aunt Betty, with
moist eyes;'and because her love was capable of so much, you have
been lead to look beyond, to that greater Love which encircles us
every day and hour.

Your mother is a grand woman, Jack!''indeed, she is,'replied the sailor.'it
is amazing that such a man as I should have been so blessed!

It forces one to believe in the forgiveness of sins, if those I have
injured can so forgive and forget.'it was getting late, and, as Lady
Coke looked tired, Jack got up to go.

He was to meet Lord Lynwood next morning, and walk down with him
to the Bridge House about the time peet returned for his breakfast.

As he left the room, Lady Coke said to her nephew,'i wish that sailor.

His has been a great repentance; as great as Dick's forgiveness has
been noble.'meantime Estelle, in her own room once more, was thinking
how strange it seemed to be in a house with windows and curtains,
with Nurse and Mademoiselle making much of her, and all her own pictures
and treasures about.

She was very tired, however, and had scarcely time to murmur,'i shall
see my cousins to-morrow,'before she fell asleep.

An hour or two later Lady Coke and Lord Lynwood were gazing, with thankful
hearts, at their sleeping child, while Jack was kneeling at the window
of his room, praying in deepest grief for pardon and for Dick.

(continued on page 370.) the GIANT of the TREASURE CAVES.

(continued from page 367.) CHAPTER XX.

True to his appointment, Jack meet Lord Lynwood on the lawn next morning, and
together they walked to the Bridge House in silence. Though Jack was anxious
to see Dick once more, he had to brace himself for what he knew would
be a trial to both.

In one sense, the worst was over.

In the knowledge that Dick was alive, and had forgiven him, he had gained what nothing could take
away-- peace of mind.

But, on the other hand, he could not but feel sorrow and self-reproach for the grief and loss he had brought
upon Dick's parents.

He realised that they also had much to forgive.

It seemed, indeed, almost worse to face them than to look at patient,
suffering Dick.

He had been so ready to pardon; would they be as willing? Jack knew instinctively
how his question would be answered when he saw peet coming towards
them across the drawbridge.'we wish to speak to you, Peet,'said Lord
Lynwood, quietly.'i know what ye want to say, my Lord,'returned peet,
gloomily, and taking care not to glance towards Jack.'my Lady had
me up this morning and told me.''in injuring your son i have injured
you, Title.

Peet,'said Jack, coming forward, and speaking in an earnest voice.'i do not
know how to ask your forgiveness; but, if your son could express himself,
he would tell you how deeply my sin has been repented, and what years
of misery it has brought on my mother and me. Unhappily, i cannot undo
the deed; neither can i give you back the lost years----''you can
do nothing, and i want nothing, thank you,'replied peet, without looking
up.'your son has forgiven all he has suffered,'began the Earl.'implore
pardon, my Lord,'returned peet, drawing himself up;'but I'm making
no complaint.

  I have not said a word for or against
    him. If my junior likes
  to forgive him, he can do as
    he chooses-- his acts are
  no rule for my wife nor
    me.''so you have spoken to your
  wife?'said the Earl, in a
    tone of regret, as Jack moved away.'i know my Lady was against it, but
my wife has been a good wife to me, and i never keep things from
her.''and what did you wife say?''well, my Lord,'replied peet, with
a little less confidence in his tone, yet with the stubborn look still
in his face,'she was upset, of course, and cried a bit, as women mostly
do.

  But when Dick, who has not
    spoke for this many a year,
  looks up,
    
  and says he, "Mother,
    
  don't bear malice-- for my sake forgive
    him;" why, she gave in at once. I am sure that it was from sheer astonishment
at Dick's speaking so clear. She didn't think of forgiving no more
than myself.

Mothers are like that-- mighty queer sometimes just when you least expect
it.''Peet,'said Lord Lynwood, signing to Jack to leave them,'i think
your wife is quite right.

  
    
  
    She is acting the nobler part.
 Presently crack, crack, went
the shells, "Peep, peep!" cried the chicks; "Cluck, cluck!" called the hen; and out came ten
downy little things one after the other, all ready to run and eat and scratch,--for chickens
are not like babies, and don't have to be tended at all.

There were eight little hens and two little cockerels, one black and one as white as snow,
with yellow legs, bright eyes, and a tiny red comb on his head. This was Cockyloo, the good
chick; but the black one was named Peck, and was a quarrelsome bad fowl, as we shall see.

Mrs. Partlet, the mamma, was very proud of her fine family; for the eight little daughters
were all white and very pretty. She led them out into the farmyard, clucking and scratching
busily; for all were hungry, and ran chirping round her to pick up the worms and seeds she
found for them. Cocky soon began to help take care of his sisters; and when a nice corn or
a fat bug was found, he would step back and let little Downy or Snowball have it. But Peck
would run and push them away, and gobble up the food greedily. He chased them away from the
pan where the meal was, and picked the down off their necks if they tried to get their share.
His mother scolded him when the little ones ran to hide under her wings; but he didn't care,
and was very naughty. Cocky began to crow when he was very young, and had such a fine voice
that people liked to hear his loud, clear "Cock-a-doodle-doo!" early in the morning; for he
woke before the sun was up, and began his song. Peck used to grumble at being roused at dawn,
for he was lazy; but the hens bustled up, and were glad to get out of the hen-house.

The father cock had been killed by a dog; so they made Cocky king of the farmyard, and Peck
was very jealous of him.

"I came out of the shell first, and I am the oldest; so I ought to be king," he said.

"But we don't like you, because you are selfish, cross, and lazy. We want Cocky; he is so lively,
kind, and brave. He will make a splendid bird, and he must be our king," answered the hens;
and Peck had to mind, or they would have pulled every feather out of his little tail.

He resolved to do some harm to his good brother, and plagued him all he could. One day, when
Cocky was swinging with three of his sisters on a bush that hung over the brook, Peck asked
a stupid donkey feeding near to come and put his heavy foot on the bush. He did it, and crack
went the branch, splash went the poor chicks into the water, and all were drowned but Cocky,
who flew across and was saved. Poor little Hop, Chirp, and Downy went floating down the brook
like balls of white foam, and were never seen again. All the hens mourned for them, and put
a black feather in their heads to show how sorry they were. Mamma Partlet was heart-broken
to lose three darlings at once; but Cocky comforted her, and never told how it happened, because
he was ashamed to have people know what a bad bird Peck was.

A butterfly saw it all, and he told Granny Cockletop about it; and the hens were so angry that
they turned Peck out of the barnyard, and he had to go and live in the woods alone. He said
he didn't care; but he did, and was very unhappy, and used to go and peep into the pleasant
field where the fowls scratched and talked together. He dared not show himself, for they would
have driven him out. But kind Cocky saw him, and would run with some nice bit and creep through
the fence into the wood, saying,--"Poor brother, I'm sorry for you, and I'll come and play
with you, and tell you the news."

Now in this wood lived a fox, and he had been planning to eat Peck as soon as he was fat; for
he missed the good corn and meal he used to have, and grew very thin living on grasshoppers
and berries. While he waited the sly fellow made friends with Peck, though the bird knew that
foxes ate hens.

"I'm not afraid, and I don't believe old Granny Cockletop's tales. I can take care of myself,
I guess," he said, and went on playing with the fox, who got him to tell all about the hen-house,--how
the door was fastened, and where the plump chickens roosted, and what time they went to bed,--so
that he could creep in and steal a good supper by and by. Silly Peck never guessed what harm
he was doing, and only laughed when Cocky said,--

"You will be sorry if you play with the fox. He is a bad fellow; so be careful and sleep on
a high branch, and keep out of his way, as I do."

Cocky was fat and large, and the fox longed to eat him, but never could, because he wisely
ran home whenever he saw the rogue hiding in the wood. This made Peck angry, for he wanted
his brother to stay and play; and so one day, when Cocky ran off in the midst of a nice game,
Peck said to the fox,--

"See here, if you want to catch that fellow, I'll tell you how to do it. He has promised to
bring me some food to-night, when all the rest are at roost. He will hide and not get shut
up; then, when those cross old biddies are asleep, he will cluck softly, and I am to go in
and eat all I want out of the pan. You hide on the top of the hen-house; and while he talks
to me, you can pounce on him. Then I shall be the only cock here, and they will have to make
me king."

"All right," said the fox, much pleased with the plan, and very glad that Peck had a chance
to get fatter.

So when it was night, Peck crept through the broken paling and waited till he heard the signal.
Now, good Cocky had saved up nice bits from his own dinner, and put them in a paper hidden
under a bush. He spread them all out in the barnyard and called; and Peck came in a great hurry
to eat them, never stopping to say, "Thank you."

Cocky stood by talking pleasantly till a little shower came up.

"Peck, dear, put this nice thick paper over you; then you will be dry, and can go on eating.
I'll step under that burdock leaf and wait till you are done," said Cocky; and Peck was too
busy gobbling up the food to remember anything else.

Now the fox had just crept up on the hen-house roof; and when he peeped down, there was just
light enough to see a white thing bobbing about.

"Ah, ha! that's Cockyloo; now for a good supper!" And with a jump he seized Peck by the head
before he could explain the mistake.

One squawk, and the naughty bird was dead; but though the paper fell off, and the fox saw what
he had done, it was too late, and he began to eat Peck up, while Cocky flew into a tree and
crowed so loud that the farmer ran with his gun and shot the fox before he could squeeze through
the hole in the fence with the fowl in his mouth.

After that the hens felt safe, for there were no more foxes; and when they heard about Peck
they did not mourn at all, but liked Cocky better than ever, and lived happily together, with
nothing to trouble them.

King Cockyloo grew to be a splendid bird,--pure white, with a tall red comb on his head, long
spurs on his yellow legs, many fine feathers in his tail, and eyes that shone like diamonds.
His crow was so loud that it could be heard all over the neighborhood, and people used to say,
"Hark! hear Farmer Hunt's cock crow. Isn't it a sweet sound to wake us in the dawn?" All the
other cocks used to answer him, and there was a fine matinee concert every day.

He was a good brother, and led his five little sisters all about the field, feeding, guarding,
and amusing them; for mamma was lame now, and could not stir far from the yard. It was a pretty
sight to see Cocky run home with a worm in his bill or a nice berry, and give it to his mother,
who was very proud of her handsome son. Even old Granny Cockletop, who scolded about everything,
liked him; and often said, as the hens sat scuffling in the dust,--

"A fine bird, my dears, a very fine bird, and I know he will do something remarkable before
he dies."

She was right for once; and this is what he did.

One day the farmer had to go away and stay all night, leaving the old lady alone with two boys.
They were not afraid; for they had a gun, and quite longed for a chance to fire it. Now it
happened that the farmer had a good deal of money in the house, and some bad men knew it; so
they waited for him to go away that they might steal it. Cocky was picking about in the field
when he heard voices behind the wall, and peeping through a hole saw two shabby men hiding there.

"At twelve, to-night, when all are asleep, we will creep in at the kitchen window and steal
the money. You shall watch on the outside and whistle if any one comes along while I'm looking
for the box where the farmer keeps it," said one man.

"You needn't be afraid; there is no dog, and no one to wake the family, so we are quite safe,"
said the other man; and then they both went to sleep till night came.

Cocky was much troubled, and didn't know what to do. He could not tell the old lady about it;
for he could only cackle and crow, and she would not understand that language. So he went about
all day looking very sober, and would not chase grasshoppers, play hide-and-seek under the
big burdock leaves, or hunt the cricket with his sisters. At sunset he did not go into the
hen-house with the rest, but flew up to the shed roof over the kitchen, and sat there in the
cold ready to scare the robbers with a loud crow, as he could do nothing else.

At midnight the men came creeping along; one stopped outside, and the other went in. Presently
he handed a basket of silver out, and went back for the money. Just as he came creeping along
with the box, Cocky gave a loud, long crow, that frightened the robbers and woke the boys.
The man with the basket ran away in such a hurry that he tumbled into a well; the other was
going to get out of the window, when Cocky flew down and picked at his eyes and flapped his
wings in his face, so that he turned to run some other way, and met the boys, who fired at
him and shot him in the legs. The old lady popped her head out of the upper window and rang
the dinner-bell, and called "Fire! fire!" so loud that it roused the neighbors, who came running
to see what the trouble could be.

They fished one man out of the well and picked up the wounded one, and carried them both off
to prison.

"Who caught them?" asked the people.

"We did," cried the boys, very proud of what they had done; "but we shouldn't have waked if
our good Cocky had not crowed, and scared the rascals. He deserves half the praise, for this
is the second time he has caught a thief."

So Cocky was brought in, and petted, and called a fine fellow; and his family were so proud
of him they clucked about it for weeks afterward.

When the robbers were tried, it was found that they were the men who had robbed the bank, and
taken a great deal of money; so every one was glad to have them shut up for twenty years. It
made a great stir, and people would go to see Cocky and tell how he helped catch the men; and
he was so brave and handsome, they said at last,--

"We want a new weather-cock on our court-house, and instead of an arrow let us have a cock;
and he shall look like this fine fellow."

"Yes, yes," cried the young folks, much pleased; for they thought Cocky ought to be remembered
in some way.

So a picture was taken, and Cocky stood very still, with his bright eye on the man; then one
like it was made of brass, and put high up on the court- house, where all could see the splendid
bird shining like gold, and twirling about to tell which way the wind was. The children were
never tired of admiring him; and all the hens and chickens went in a procession one moonlight
night to see it,--yes, even Mamma Partlet and Granny Cockletop, though one was lame and the
other very old, so full of pride were they in the great honor done King Cockyloo.

This was not the end of his good deeds; and the last was the best of all, though it cost him
his life. He ruled for some years, and kept his kingdom in good order; for no one would kill
him, when many of the other fowls were taken for Thanksgiving and Christmas dinners. But he
did die at last; and even then he was good and brave, as you shall hear.

One of the boys wanted to smoke a pipe, and went behind the hen-house, so nobody should see
him do such a silly thing. He thought he heard his father coming, and hid the pipe under the
house. Some straw and dry leaves lay about, and took fire, setting the place in a blaze; for
the boy ran away when he saw the mischief he had done, and the fire got to burning nicely before
the cries of the poor hens called people to help. The door was locked, and could not be opened,
because the key was in the pocket of the naughty boy; so the farmer got an axe and chopped
down the wall, letting the poor biddies fly out, squawking and smoking.

"Where is Cocky?" cried the other boy, as he counted the hens and missed the king of the farmyard.

"Burnt up, I'm afraid," said the farmer, who was throwing water on the flames.

Alas! yes, he was: for when the fire was out they found good old Cocky sitting on a nest, with
his wide wings spread over some little chicks whose mother had left them. They were too small
to run away, and sat chirping sadly till Cocky covered and kept them safe, though the smoke
choked him to death.

Every one was very sorry; and the children gave the good bird a fine funeral, and buried him
in the middle of the field, with a green mound over him, and a white stone, on which was written,--

  Here lies the bravest cock that ever crew:
  We mourn for him with sorrow true.
  Now nevermore at dawn his music shall we hear,
  Waking the world like trumpet shrill and clear.
  The hens all hang their heads, the chickens sadly peep;
  The boys look sober, and the girls all weep.
  Good-by, dear Cocky: sleep and rest,
  With grass and daisies on your faithful breast;
  And when you wake, brave bird, so good and true,
  Clap your white wings and crow, "Cock-a-doodle-doo."

VI.

ROSY'S JOURNEY.

Rosy was a nice little girl who lived with her mother in a small house in the woods. They were
very poor, for the father had gone away to dig gold, and did not come back; so they had to
work hard to get food to eat and clothes to wear. The mother spun yarn when she was able, for
she was often sick, and Rosy did all she could to help. She milked the red cow and fed the
hens; dug the garden, and went to town to sell the yarn and the eggs. 

A stranger would say,'why, they are all sheep, and all alike, and that is all there is like
you; for you are the wolf, so go away, you can't get in to-day. "the baffled wolf to the old mill
ran, and whined to the busy miller man:" i love to hear the sound of the wheel and to smell the
corn and meal.

"the miller was pleased, and said" all right; would you like your cap and
jacket white? "at that he opened a flour bin and playfully dipped
him in. He floundered and sneezed a while, then, lo, he crept out white
as a wolf of snow." if chalk and flour can make me sweet, "he said," then
i'm complete. "for the third time back to the house he went, and looked
and spoke so different, that when he rapped, and" open! "cried, the little
ones replied," if you show us nice clean feet, we will.

"and
straightway, there on the window-sill his paws were laid, with dusty meal
powdered from toe to heel.

Yes, they were white! so they let him in, and he gobbled them all up, feathers and skin! gobbled the whole,
as if" photographic revolver, "which is aimed at them.

Recently an american, Mr. Muybridge, has been able to photograph horses
while galloping or trotting, by his" battery of cameras, "and a book
on" the Horse in Motion "has for its subject this instantaneous catching
a likeness as applied to animals. But how could any process, however
swift, or ingenious, or admirable, do full justice to the grace and
spirit, the all-alive attitudes and varieties of posture, the dalliance
and charm, the freedom in action?

Professor Bartholomew gave his performances the name of" the equine Paradox. "he now has his
beautiful animals in delightful summer quarters at Newport, where they are counted among the"
notable guests. "he has the Opera House there for his training school for three
months, preparing new ones for next winter's exhibition, and keeping
the old ones in practice. It is pleasant to know that he cares so
faithfully for their health as to give them a home through the warm weather
in that cool retreat by the sea. QUESTIONS. Can you put the spider's web
back in its place, that once has been swept away? can you put the
apple pretty on the bough, which fell at our feet to-day? can you
put the lily-cup back on the stem, and cause it to live and grow?
can you mend the butterfly's broken wing, that you were crushed with
a hasty blow? can you put the bloom again on the grape, or the grape
again on the vine? can you put the dewdrops back on the flowers, and
make them sparkle and shine? can you put the petals back on the rose?
if you could, would it smell as sweet? can you put the flour again
in the husk, and show me the ripened wheat? can you put the kernel
back in the nut, or the great number of words they understand, but
the mental processes and nice calculation they show in the feats where
they are associated in complex ways, which require that each must
act his part independently and mind nothing about it if another happens
to make a mistake.

To obtain any adequate representation of these horses while performing, it was necessary that
it be done by process called instantaneous photographing. You are aware that
birds and insects are taken by means of an instrument named the'twere fun,
except the littlest one. An old clock stood there, tick, tick, tick,
and into that he had hopped so quick the wolf saw nothing, and fancied
even he'd eaten all the seven. But six were enough to satisfy; so down
they went to the river's brim, where their feathered friends were wont
to swim, and there on the turf so green and deep the old wolf lay asleep.
He had a grizzly, savage look, and he snored till the boughs above
him shook. They tiptoed round him-- drew quite near, yet still he did
not hear.

Then, as the mother gazed, to her It seemed she could see his gaunt side stir-- Stir and squirm,
as if under the skin were something alive within!"

Go back to the house, quick, dear, "she said," and fetch me scissors
and needle and thread. I'll open his ugly hairy hide, and see what
is inside.

"she
snipped with the scissors a criss-cross slit, and well rewarded she
was for it, for there were her goslings-- six together-- with the face
of forty men. And the rollicking Rebel raiders forgot themselves somehow,
and three cheers brave for the hero gave, and three for the brindle
cow. MRS. EMILY HUNTINGTON NASON.

The WOLF and the GOSLINGS. An old gray goose walked forth with pride,
with goslings seven at her side; a lovely yellowish-green they were, and
very dear to her. She led them to the river's brink to paddle their feet awhile
and drink, and there she heard a tale that made her very soul afraid.
A neighbor gabbled the story out, how a wolf was known to be thereabout--
a great wolf whom nothing could please as well as little geese.

So, when, as usual, to the wood she went next day in search of food, she
warned them over and over, before she turned to shut the door:" my
little ones, if you hear a knock at the door, be sure and not unlock,
for the wolf will eat you, if he gets in, Feathers and bones and skin.

"you will know him by his voice so hoarse, by his paws so hairy and
black and coarse." and the goslings piped up, clear and shrill, "we'll
take great care, we will." the mother thought them wise and went
to the far-off forest quite content; but she was scarcely away, before
there came a rap at the door.

"open, open, my children dear," a gruff voice cried: "your mother
is here." but the young ones answered, "no, no, no, her voice is sweet
and low;" and you are the wolf-- so go away, you can't get in, if
you try all day.

"he laughed to himself to hear them talk, and wished he had some chalk,
to smooth his mine to a tone like geese; so he went to the merchant's
and bought a piece, and hurried up, and rapped once more." open,
open the door, "i am your mother, dears," he said.

But up on the window ledge he laid, in a careless way, his great black paw, and this the goslings
saw. "no, no," they called, "that will not do, our mother has not black hands to it;'but the owner
knows better; he knows every face in flock. He says,'this is Jenny,
and that is Dolly, there is Jim, and here's Nancy.'oh, land, yes!
they are no more alike than human beings are, disposition or anything.

Some have to be ordered, and some coaxed and flattered. Yes, flattered. Now
if two men come and want to work for me, i can tell as soon as i
cast my eyes on them.

I
say to one,'go and do such a thing;'but if I said it to the other,
he'd answer'I won't; i'm not going to be ordered about by any man.'Horses
are just like that. A horse can read you. If you get mad, he will. If you abuse him,
he will do the same by you, or try to. You must control yourself,
if you would control a horse." they must be of superior grade, "for
it's of no use to spend one's time on a dull one.

It does not pay to teach
idiots where you want brilliant results, though all well enough for
a certain purpose." some of these he had been five years in educating
to do what we saw.

Some
he had taught to do their special part in one year, some in two. The first
thing he did was to give the horse opportunity and time to get well
acquainted with him; in his words, "to become friends.

Let him see that you are his friend, that you are not going to whip him. You meet him cordially.
You are glad to see him and be with him, and again soon he knows it and likes
to be with you. And so you establish comradeship, you understand
each other. Caress him softly. Don't make a dash at him. Say pleasant
things to him. Be gentle; but at the same time you must be master." that
is a good basis. And then he teaches one thing at a time, a simple
thing, and waits a good while before he brings forward another; does
not perplex or puzzle the pupil by anything else till that is learned,
and some of the first words are "come," "stand," "remain." what a
horse has once learned he never or seldom in cinders black, the great
wolf's ugly track.

She called out tenderly every name, but never a voice in answer came, till a little frightened, broad-billed
face peered out of the clock-case. This gosling told his tale with
grief, and the gray goose sobbed in her handkerchief, and sighed--
"ah, well, we will have to go and let the neighbors know." so out
he strolled on the grass to lie.

And when the gray goose presently came home-- what did she see? alas,
the house door open wide, but no little yellow flock inside; the beds
and pillows thrown about; the fire all gone out; the chairs and tables
overset; the wash-tub spilled, and the floor all wet; and here and
there forgets.

Mr. Bartholomew thinks it is not as has sometimes been said, because
a horse has a memory stronger than a man, "but because he has fewer
things to learn.

A man sees a million things. A horse's mind cannot accommodate what a man's can, so those things
he knows have a better chance. Those few things he fixes. His memory
fastens on them. I once had a pony i had trained, which was afterwards
gone from me three years. At the end of that time I was in California exhibiting,
and saw a boy on the pony. I tried to buy him, but the boy who had
owned him all that time, refused to part with him; however, i offered
such a price that i got him, and that same evening i took him into
the tent and thought I would see what he remembered.

He went through all his old tricks (besides a few I had myself forgotten)
except one. He could not manage walking on his hind feet the distance he used to.
Another time I had a trained horse stolen from me by the Indians, and he
was off in the wilds with them a year and a half. One day, in a little
village-- that was in California too-- i saw him and knew him, and the
horse knew me. I went up to the indian who had him and said,'that
is my horse, and i can prove it.'out there a stolen horse, no matter
how many times he has changed hands, is given up, if the owner can
prove it.

The indian said,'if you can, you shall have him, but you won't do it.'i
said,'i will try him in four things; i will ask him to trot three times
around a circle, to lie down, to sit up, and to bring me my handkerchief.

If he is my horse, he will do it.'the indian said,'you shall have him if he does,
but he won't!'by this time a crowd had got together. We put the horse
in an enclosure, he did as he was told, and i had him back."

Mr. Bartholomew said, "my motto in educating them is,'make haste slowly;'i
never require too much, and i never ask a horse to do what he can't
do. That is of no use.

A horse can't learn what horses are not capable of learning; and he
can't do a thing until he understands what you mean, and how you want
it done.

What good would it do for me to ask a man a question in french if
he did not know a word of the language? i get him used to the word,
and show him what i want.

If it is to climb up somewhere, i gently put his foot up and have
him keep it there until i am ready to have it come down, and then
i take it down myself.

I never let the horse do it. The same with other things, showing
him how, and by words.

They know a great number of words. My horses are not influenced by
signs or motions when they are on the stage.

They use their intelligence and memory, and they associate ideas and are required to obey. They
learn a great deal by observing one another.

One watches and learns by seeing the others. I taught one horse to
kneel, by first bending his knee myself, and putting him into position.

After he had learned, i took another in who kept watch all the time, and
learned partly by imitation.

They are social creatures; they love each other's company." most
of these horses have been together now for several years, and are
fond of one another.

They appear to keep the run of the whole performance, and listen and notice like children in
a school when one or more of their number goes out to recite. It was extremely
interesting to observe them when the leap-frog game was going on.

Owing to the smallness of the stage, it was difficult for the horse who was to make the jump to
get under headway, and several times poor Sprite, or whichever it was,
would turn abruptly to make another start, upon which every horse
on her side would dart out for a chance at giving her a nip as she
went by.

They all seemed throughout the entire exhibition to feel a sort of
responsibility, or at least a pride in it, as if "this is our school.

  
  
  See how well bucephalus minds, or how badly Brutus behaves! this
is our regiment.

Don't
  we march well? how fine
  and grand, how gallant
  and gay we are!" and the wonder of it all is, not so much what any
one horse can do, or the sense of humor they show, or the broken
egg in its shell? can you put the honey back in the comb, and cover
with wax each cell? can you put the perfume back in the vase, when
once it has sped away? can you put the corn-silk back on the corn,
or the down on the catkins-- say? you think that my questions are
trifling, dear? let me ask you another one: can a hasty word ever
be unsaid, or a deed unkind, undone?

KATE LAWRENCE. The BRAVEST BOY in TOWN. He lived in the Cumberland Valley,
and his name was Jamie Brown; but it changed one day, so the neighbors
say, to the "Bravest Boy in Town."'Twas the time when the southern
soldiers, under early's mad command, O'er the border made their dashing
raid from the north of Maryland.

And Chambersburg unransomed in smouldering ruins slept, while up the vale,
like a fiery gale, the Rebel raiders swept.

And a squad of gray-clad horsemen came thundering o'er the bridge,
where peaceful cows in the meadows browse, at the feet of the great
blue Ridge; and on till they reached the village, that fair in the
valley lay, Defenseless then, for its loyal men, at the front, were
far away.

"Pillage and spoil and plunder!" this was the fearful
word that the Widow brown, in gazing down from her latticed window,
heard.'Neath the boughs of the sheltering oak-tree, the leader bared
his head, as left and right, until out of sight, his dusty gray-coats
sped.

Then he called: "Halloo! within there!" a gentle, fair-haired dame
across the floor to the open door in gracious answer came.

"here! stable my horse, you woman!"-- the soldier's tones were rude--
"then bestir yourself and from yonder shelf Set out your store of
food!" for her guest she spread the table; she motioned him to his
place with a gesture proud; then the widow had bowed, and gently--
asked a grace.

    
    "if thine enemy hunger, feed him! i obey, dear Christ!" she said;
a creeping blush, with its scarlet flush, O'er the face of the soldier
spread.

He rose:
  "you have said it, madam! standing
    within your doors is the
    Rebel foe; but as forth
  
they go they shall trouble not you nor yours!" alas, for the word of
the leader! alas, for the soldier's vow! when the captain's men rode
down the glen, they carried the widow's cow.

It
was then the fearless Jamie sprang up with flashing eyes, and in spite
of tears and his mother's fears, on the gray mare, off he flies.

Like a wild young Tam O'Shanter he plunged with piercing whoop, O'er
field and brook till he overtook the straggling Rebel troop. Laden with
spoil and plunder, and laughing and shouting still, as with cattle
and sheep they lazily creep through the dust o'er the winding hill.

"oh! the coward crowd!" cried Jamie; "there's Brindle! i'll teach them
now!" and with headlong stride, at the captain's side, he called
for his mother's cow.

"Who are you, and who is your mother?-- I promised she should not
miss?-- well! upon my word, have i never heard of assurance like to
this!"

"is your word the word of a soldier?"-- and the young lad faced his foes, as a jeering laugh, in anger
half and half in sport, arose.

But the captain drew his sabre, and spoke, with lowering brow: "Fall back into line! the joke is mine!
Surrender the widow's cow!" and a capital joke they thought it, that
a barefoot lad of ten should demand his due-- and get it too-- in
scarcely a rumpled feather.

 Tom's got it! Hooray for Tom!"

"What is it?" cried the others; and then they saw Tom come up with the biggest lump of gold
ever found in the mountains.

Every one was glad of Tom's luck; for he was a good man, and had worked a long time, and been
sick, and couldn't go back to his wife and child. When he saw Rosy, he dropped the lump, and
caught her up, saying,--

"My little girl! she's better than a million pounds of gold."

Then Rosy was very happy, and went back to the hut, and had a lovely time telling her father
all about her troubles and her travels. He cried when he heard that the poor mother was dead
before she could have any of the good things the gold would buy them.

"We will go away and be happy together in the pleasantest home I can find, and never part any
more, my darling," said the father, kissing Rosy as she sat on his knee with her arms round
his neck.

She was just going to say something very sweet to comfort him, when a fly lit on her arm and
buzzed very loud,--

    "Don't drive me away,
    But hear what I say:
  Bad men want the gold;
    They will steal it to-night,
    And you must take flight;
  So be quiet and busy and bold."

"I was afraid some one would take my lump away. I'll pack up at once, and we will creep off
while the men are busy at work; though I'm afraid we can't go fast enough to be safe, if they
miss us and come after," said Tom, bundling his gold into a bag and looking very sober; for
some of the miners were wild fellows, and might kill him for the sake of that great lump.

But the fly sang again,--

    "Slip away with me,
    And you will see
  What a wise little thing am I;
    For the road I show
    No man can know,
  Since it's up in the pathless sky."

Then they followed Buzz to a quiet nook in the wood; and there were the eagle and his mate
waiting to fly away with them so fast and so far that no one could follow. Rosy and the bag
of gold were put on the mother eagle; Tom sat astride the king bird; and away they flew to
a great city, where the little girl and her father lived happily together all their lives.

VII.

HOW THEY RAN AWAY.

Two little boys sat on the fence whittling arrows one fine day. Said one little boy to the
other little boy,--

"Let's do something jolly."

"All right. What will we do?"

"Run off to the woods and be hunters."

"What can we hunt?"

"Bears and foxes"

"Mullin says there ain't any round here."

"Well, we can shoot squirrels and snare wood-chucks."

"Haven't got any guns and trap."

"We've got our bows, and I found an old trap behind the barn."

"What will we eat?"

"Here's our lunch; and when that's gone we can roast the squirrels and cook the fish on a stick.
I know how."

"Where will you get the fire?"

"Got matches in my pocket."

"I've got a lot of things we could use. Let's see."

And as if satisfied at last, cautious Billy displayed his treasures, while bold Tommy did the same.

Besides the two knives there were strings, nails, matches, a piece of putty, fish-hooks, and
two very dirty handkerchiefs.

"There, sir, that's a first-rate fit-out for hunters; and with the jolly basket of lunch Mrs.
Mullin gave us, we can get on tip-top for two or three days," said Tommy, eager to be off.

"Where shall we sleep?" asked Billy, who liked to be comfortable both night and day.

"Oh, up in trees or on beds of leaves, like the fellows in our books. If you are afraid, stay
at home; I'm going to have no end of a good time." And Tommy crammed the things back into his
pockets as if there were no time to lose.

"Pooh! I ain't afraid. Come on!" And jumping down Billy caught up his rod, rather ashamed of
his many questions.

No one was looking at them, and they might have walked quietly off; but that the "running away"
might be all right, both raced down the road, tumbled over a wall, and dashed into the woods
as if a whole tribe of wild Indians were after them.

"Do you know the way?" panted Billy, when at last they stopped for breath.

"Yes, it winds right up the mountain; but we'd better not keep to it, or some one will see
us and take us back. We are going to be real hunters and have adventures; so we must get lost,
and find our way by the sun and the stars," answered Tommy, who had read so many Boys' Books
his little head was a jumble of Texan Rangers, African Explorers, and Buffalo Bills; and he
burned to outdo them all.

"What will our mothers say if we really get lost?" asked Billy, always ready with a question.

"Mine won't fuss. She lets me do what I like."

That was true; for Tommy's poor mamma was tired of trying to keep the lively little fellow
in order, and had got used to seeing him come out of all his scrapes without much harm.

"Mine will be scared; she's always afraid I'm going to get hurt, so I'm careful. But I guess
I'll risk it, and have some fun to tell about when we go home," said Billy, trudging after
Captain Tommy, who always took the lead.

These eleven-year-old boys were staying with their mothers at a farm-house up among the mountains;
and having got tired of the tame bears, the big barn, the trout brook, the thirty colts at
pasture, and the society of the few little girls and younger boys at the hotel near by, these
fine fellows longed to break loose and "rough it in the bush," as the hunters did in their
favorite stories.

Away they went, deeper and deeper into the great forest that covered the side of the mountain.
A pleasant place that August day; for it was cool and green, with many brooks splashing over
the rocks, or lying in brown pools under the ferns. Squirrels chattered and raced in the tall
pines; now and then a gray rabbit skipped out of sight among the brakes, or a strange bird
flew by. Here and there blackberries grew in the open places, sassafras bushes were plentiful,
and black-birch bark was ready for chewing.

"Don't you call this nice?" asked Tommy, pausing at last in a little dell where a noisy brook
came tumbling down the mountain side, and the pines sung overhead.

"Yes; but I'm awful hungry. Let's rest and eat our lunch," said Billy, sitting down on a cushion
of moss.

"You always want to be stuffing and resting," answered sturdy Tommy, who liked to be moving
all the time.

He took the fishing-basket, which hung over his shoulder by a strap, and opened it carefully;
for good Mrs. Mullin had packed a nice lunch of bread and butter, cake and peaches, with a
bottle of milk, and two large pickles slipped in on the sly to please the boys.

Tommy's face grew very sober as he looked in, for all he saw was a box of worms for bait and
an old jacket.

"By George! we've got the wrong basket. This is Mullin's, and he's gone off with our prog.
Won't he be mad?"

"Not as mad as I am. Why didn't you look? You are always in such a hurry to start. What shall
we do now without anything to eat?" whined Billy; for losing his lunch was a dreadful blow to him.

"We shall have to catch some fish and eat blackberries. Which will you do, old cry-baby?" said
Tommy, laughing at the other boy's dismal face.

"I'll fish; I'm so tired I can't go scratching round after berries. I don't love 'em, either."
And Billy began to fix his line and bait his hook.

"Lucky we got the worms; you can eat 'em if you can't wait for fish," said Tommy, bustling
about to empty the basket and pile up their few possessions in a heap. "There's a quiet pool
below here, you go and fish there. I'll pick the berries, and then show you how to get dinner
in the woods. This is our camp; so fly round and do your best."

Then Tommy ran off to a place near by where he had seen the berries, while Billy found a comfortable
nook by the pool, and sat scowling at the water so crossly, it was a wonder any trout came
to his hook. But the fat worms tempted several small ones, and he cheered up at the prospect
of food. Tommy whistled while he picked, and in half an hour came back with two quarts of nice
berries and an armful of dry sticks for the fire.

"We'll have a jolly dinner, after all," he said, as the flames went crackling up, and the dry
leaves made a pleasant smell.

"Got four, but don't see how we'll ever cook 'em; no frying-pan," grumbled Billy, throwing
down the four little trout, which he had half cleaned.

"Don't want any. Broil 'em on the coals, or toast 'em on a forked stick. I'll show you how,"
said cheerful Tommy, whittling away, and feeding his fire as much like a real hunter as a small
boy could be.

While he worked, Billy ate berries and sighed for bread and butter. At last, after much trouble,
two of the trout were half cooked and eagerly eaten by the hungry boys. But they were very
different from the nice brown ones Mrs. Mullin gave them; for in spite of Tommy's struggles
they would fall in the ashes, and there was no salt to eat with them. By the time the last
were toasted, the young hunters were so hungry they could have eaten anything, and not a berry
was left.

"I set the trap down there, for I saw a hole among the vines, and I shouldn't wonder if we
got a rabbit or something," said Tommy, when the last bone was polished. "You go and catch
some more fish, and I'll see if I have caught any old chap as he went home to dinner."

Off ran Tommy; and the other boy went slowly back to the brook, wishing with all his might
he was at home eating sweet corn and berry pie.

The trout had evidently gone to their dinners, for not one bite did poor Billy get; and he
was just falling asleep when a loud shout gave him such a fright that he tumbled into the brook
up to his knees.

"I've got him! Come and see! He's a bouncer," roared Tommy, from the berry bushes some way off.

Billy scrambled out, and went as fast as his wet boots would let him, to see what the prize
was. He found Tommy dancing wildly round a fat gray animal, who was fighting to get his paws
out of the trap, and making a queer noise as he struggled about.

"What is it?" asked Billy, getting behind a tree as fast as possible, for the thing looked
fierce, and he was very timid.

"A raccoon, I guess, or a big woodchuck. Won't his fur make a fine cap? I guess the other fellows
will wish they'd come with us." said Tommy, prancing to and fro, without the least idea what
to do with the creature.

"He'll bite. We'd better run away and wait till he's dead," said Billy.

"Wish he'd got his head in, then I could carry him off; but he does look savage, so we'll have
to leave him awhile, and get him when we come back. But he's a real beauty." And Tommy looked
proudly at the bunch of gray fur scuffling in the sand.

"Can we ever eat him?" asked hungry Billy, ready for a fried crocodile if he could get it.

"If he's a raccoon, we can; but I don't know about woodchucks. The fellows in my books don't
seem to have caught any. He's nice and fat; we might try him when he's dead," said Tommy, who
cared more for the skin to show than the best meal ever cooked.

The sound of a gun echoing through the wood gave Tommy a good idea,--

"Let's find the man and get him to shoot this chap; then we needn't wait, but skin him right
away, and eat him too."

Off they went to the camp; and catching up their things, the two hunters hurried away in the
direction of the sound, feeling glad to know that some one was near them, for two or three
hours of wood life made them a little homesick.

They ran and scrambled, and listened and called; but not until they had gone a long way up
the mountain did they find the man, resting in an old hut left by the lumbermen. The remains
of his dinner were spread on the floor, and he lay smoking, and reading a newspaper, while
his dog dozed at his feet, close to a well-filled game-bag.

He looked surprised when two dirty, wet little boys suddenly appeared before him,--one grinning
cheerfully, the other looking very dismal and scared as the dog growled and glared at them
as if they were two rabbits.

"Hollo!" said the man

"Hollo!" answered Tommy.

"Who are you?" asked the man.

"Hunters," said Tommy.

"Had good luck?" And the man laughed.

"First-rate. Got a raccoon in our trap, and we want you to come and shoot him," answered Tommy,
proudly.

"Sure?" said the man, looking interested as well as amused.

"No, but I think so."

"What's he like?"

Tommy described him, and was much disappointed when the man lay down again, saying, with another
laugh,--

"It's a woodchuck; he's no good."

"But I want the skin."

"Then don't shoot him, let him die; that's better for the skin," said the man, who was tired
and didn't want to stop for such poor game.

All this time Billy had been staring hard at the sandwiches and bread and cheese on the floor,
and sniffing at them, as the dog sniffed at him.

"Want some grub?" asked the man, seeing the hungry look.

"I just do! We left our lunch, and I've only had two little trout and some old berries since
breakfast," answered Billy, with tears in his eyes and a hand on his stomach.

"Eat away then; I'm done, and don't want the stuff." And the man took up his paper as if glad
to be let alone.

It was lucky that the dog had been fed, for in ten minutes nothing was left but the napkin;
and the boys sat picking up the crumbs, much refreshed, but ready for more.

"Better be going home, my lads; it's pretty cold on the mountain after sunset, and you are
a long way from town," said the man, who had peeped at them over his paper now and then, and
saw, in spite of the dirt and rips, that they were not farmer boys.

"We don't live in town; we are at Mullin's, in the valley. No hurry; we know the way, and we
want to have some sport first. You seem to have done well," answered Tommy, looking enviously
from the gun to the game-bag, out of which hung a rabbit's head and a squirrel's tail.

"Pretty fair; but I want a shot at the bear. People tell me there is one up here, and I'm after
him; for he kills the sheep, and might hurt some of the young folks round here," said the man,
loading his gun with a very sober air; for he wanted to get rid of the boys and send them home.

Billy looked alarmed; but Tommy's brown face beamed with joy as he said eagerly,--

"I hope you'll get him. I'd rather shoot a bear than any other animal but a lion. We don't
have those here, and bears are scarce. Mullin said he hadn't heard of one for a long time;
so this must be a young one, for they killed the big one two years ago."

That was true, and the man knew it. He did not really expect or want to meet a bear, but thought
the idea of one would send the little fellows home at once. Finding one of them was unscared,
he laughed, and said with a nod to Tommy,--

"If I had time I'd take you along, and show you how to hunt; but this fat friend of yours couldn't
rough it with us, and we can't leave him alone; so go ahead your own way. Only I wouldn't climb
any higher, for among the rocks you are sure to get hurt or lost."

"Oh, I say, let's go! Such fun, Billy! I know you'll like it. A real gun and dog and hunter!
Come on, and don't be a molly-coddle," cried Tommy, wild to go.

"I won't! I'm tired, and I'm going home; you can go after your old bears if you want to. I
don't think much of hunting anyway, and wish I hadn't come," growled Billy, very cross at being
left out, yet with no desire to scramble any more.

"Can't stop. Good-by. Get along home, and some day I'll come and take you out with me, little
Leatherstocking," said the man, striding off with the dear gun and dog and bag, leaving Billy
to wonder what he meant by that queer name, and Tommy to console himself with the promise made him.

"Let's go and see how old Chucky gets on," he said good-naturedly, when the man vanished.

"Not till I'm rested. I can get a good nap on this pile of hay; then we'll go home before it's
late," answered lazy Billy, settling himself on the rough bed the lumbermen had used.

"I just wish I had a boy with some go in him; you ain't much better than a girl," sighed Tommy,
walking off to a pine-tree where some squirrels seemed to be having a party, they chattered
and raced up and down at such a rate.

He tried his bow and shot all his arrows many times in vain, for the lively creatures gave
him no chance. He had better luck with a brown bird who sat in a bush and was hit full in the
breast with the sharpest arrow. The poor thing fluttered and fell, and its blood wet the green
leaves as it lay dying on the grass. Tommy was much pleased at first; but as he stood watching
its bright eye grow dim and its pretty brown wings stop fluttering, he felt sorry that its
happy little life was so cruelly ended, and ashamed that his thoughtless fun had given so much
pain.

"I'll never shoot another bird except hawks after chickens, and I won't brag about this one.
It was so tame, and trusted me, I was very mean to kill it."

As he thought this, Tommy smoothed the ruffled feathers of the dead thrush, and, making a little
grave under the pine, buried it wrapped in green leaves, and left it there where its mate could
sing over it, and no rude hands disturb its rest.

"I'll tell mamma and she will understand: but I won't tell Billy. He is such a greedy old chap
he'll say I ought to have kept the poor bird to eat," thought Tommy, as he went back to the
hut, and sat there, restringing his bow, till Billy woke up, much more amiable for his sleep.

They tried to find the woodchuck, but lost their way, and wandered deeper into the great forest
till they came to a rocky place and could go no farther. They climbed up and tumbled down,
turned back and went round, looked at the sun and knew it was late, chewed sassafras bark and
checkerberry leaves for supper, and grew more and more worried and tired as hour after hour
went by and they saw no end to woods and rocks. Once or twice they heard the hunter's gun far
away, and called and tried to find him.

Tommy scolded Billy for not going with the man, who knew his way and was probably safe in the
valley when the last faint shot came up to them. Billy cried, and reproached Tommy for proposing
to run away; and both felt very homesick for their mothers and their good safe beds at Farmer
Mullin's.

The sun set, and found them in a dreary place full of rocks and blasted trees half-way up the
mountain. They were so tired they could hardly walk, and longed to lie down anywhere to sleep;
but, remembering the hunter's story of the bear, they were afraid to do it, till Tommy suggested
climbing a tree, after making a fire at the foot of it to scare away the bear, lest he climb
too and get them.

But, alas! the matches were left in their first camp; so they decided to take turns to sleep
and watch, since it was plain that they must spend the night there. Billy went up first, and
creeping into a good notch of the bare tree tried to sleep, while brave Tommy, armed with a
big stick, marched to and fro below. Every few minutes a trembling voice would call from above,
"Is anything coming?" and an anxious voice would answer from below, "Not yet. Hurry up and
go to sleep! I want my turn."

At last Billy began to snore, and then Tommy felt so lonely he couldn't bear it; so he climbed
to a lower branch, and sat nodding and trying to keep watch, till he too fell fast asleep,
and the early moon saw the poor boys roosting there like two little owls.

A loud cry, a scrambling overhead, and then a great shaking and howling waked Tommy so suddenly
that he lost his wits for a moment and did not know where he was.

"The bear! the bear! don't let him get me! Tommy, Tommy, come and make him let go," cried Billy,
filling the quiet night with dismal howls.

Tommy looked up, expecting to behold a large bear eating his unhappy friend; but the moonlight
showed him nothing but poor Billy dangling from a bough, high above the ground, caught by his
belt when he fell. He had been dreaming of bears, and rolled off his perch; so there he hung,
kicking and wailing, half awake, and so scared it was long before Tommy could make him believe
that he was quite safe.

How to get him down was the next question. The branch was not strong enough to bear Tommy,
though he climbed up and tried to unhook poor Billy. The belt was firmly twisted at the back,
and Billy could not reach to undo it, nor could he get his legs round the branch to pull himself
up. There seemed no way but to unbuckle the belt and drop. That he was afraid to try; for the
ground was hard, and the fall a high one. Fortunately both belt and buckle were strong; so
he hung safely, though very uncomfortably, while Tommy racked his boyish brain to find a way
to help him.

Billy had just declared that he should be cut in two very soon if something was not done for
him, and Tommy was in despair, when they thought they heard a far-off shout, and both answered
it till their throats were nearly split with screaming.

"I seem to see a light moving round down that way," cried Billy from his hook, pointing toward
the valley.

"They are looking for us, but they won't hear us. I'll run and holler louder, and bring 'em
up here," answered Tommy, glad to do anything that would put an end to this dreadful state
of things.

"Don't leave me! I may fall and be killed! The bear might come! Don't go! don't go!" wailed
Billy, longing to drop, but afraid.

"I won't go far, and I'll come back as quick as I can. You are safe up there. Hold on, and
we'll soon get you down," answered Tommy, rushing away helter-skelter, never minding where
he went, and too much excited to care for any damage.

The moon was bright on the blasted trees; but when he came down among the green pines, it grew
dark, and he often stumbled and fell. Never minding bumps and bruises, he scrambled over rocks,
leaped fallen trunks, floundered through brooks, and climbed down steep places, till, with
a reckless jump, he went heels over head into a deep hole, and lay there for a moment stunned
by the fall. It was an old bear-trap, long unused, and fortunately well carpeted with dead
leaves, or poor Tommy would have broken his bones.

When he came to himself he was so used up that he lay still for some time in a sort of daze,
too tired to know or care about anything, only dimly conscious that somebody was lost in a
tree or a well, and that, on the whole, running away was not all fun.

By and by the sound of a gun roused him; and remembering poor Billy, he tried to get out of
the pit,--for the moon showed him where he was. But it was too deep, and he was too stiff with
weariness and the fall to be very nimble. So he shouted, and whistled, and raged about very
like a little bear caught in the pit.

It is very difficult to find a lost person on these great mountains, and many wander for hours
not far from help, bewildered by the thick woods, the deep ravines, and precipices which shut
them in. Some have lost their lives; and as Tommy lay on the leaves used up by his various
struggles, he thought of all the stories he had lately heard at the farm, and began to wonder
how it would feel to starve to death down there, and to wish poor Billy could come to share
his prison, that they might die together, like the Babes in the Wood, or better still the Boy
Scouts lost on the prairies in that thrilling story, "Bill Boomerang, the Wild Hunter of the West."

"I guess mother is worried this time, because I never stayed out all night before, and I never
will again without leave. It's rather good fun, though, if they only find me. I ain't afraid,
and it isn't very cold. I always wanted to sleep out, and now I'm doing it. Wish poor Billy
was safely down and in this good bed with me. Won't he be scared all alone there? Maybe the
belt will break and he get hurt bumping down. Sorry now I left him, he's such a 'fraid-cat.
There's the gun again! Guess it's that man after us. Hi! hollo! Here I am! Whoop! Hurrah! Hi!
hi! hi!"

Tommy's meditations ended in a series of yells as loud as his shrill little voice could make
them, and he thought some one answered. But it must have been an echo, for no one came; and
after another rampage round his prison, the poor boy nestled down among the leaves, and went
fast asleep because there was nothing else to do.

So there they were, the two young hunters, lost at midnight on the mountain,--one hanging like
an apple on the old tree, and the other sound asleep in a bear-pit. Their distracted mothers
meantime were weeping and wringing their hands at the farm, while all the men in the neighborhood
were out looking for the lost boys. The hunter on his return to the hotel had reported meeting
the runaways and his effort to send them home in good season; so people knew where to look,
and, led by the man and dog, up the mountain went Mr. Mullin with his troop. It was a mild
night, and the moon shone high and clear; so the hunt was, on the whole, rather easy and pleasant
at first, and lanterns flashed through the dark forest like fireflies, the lonely cliffs seemed
alive with men, and voices echoed in places where usually only the brooks babbled and the hawks
screamed. But as time went on, and no sign of the boys appeared, the men grew anxious, and
began to fear some serious harm had come to the runaways.

"I can't go home without them little shavers no way, 'specially Tommy," said Mr. Mullin, as
they stopped to rest after a hard climb through the blasted grove. "He's a boy after my own
heart, spry as a chipmunk, smart as a young cockerel, and as full of mischief as a monkey.
He ain't afraid of anything, and I shouldn't be a mite surprised to find him enjoyin' himself
first-rate, and as cool as a coocumber."

"The fat boy won't take it so easily, I fancy. If it hadn't been for him I'd have kept the
lively fellow with me, and shown him how to hunt. Sorry now I didn't take them both home,"
said the man with the gun, seeing his mistake too late, as people often do.

"Maybe they've fell down a precipice and got killed, like Moses Warner, when he was lost,"
suggested a tall fellow, who had shouted himself hoarse.

"Hush up, and come on! The dog is barkin' yonder, and he may have found 'em," said the farmer,
hurrying toward the place where the hound was baying at something in a tree.

It was poor Billy, hanging there still, half unconscious with weariness and fear. The belt
had slipped up under his arms, so he could breathe easily; and there he was, looking like a
queer sort of cone on the blasted pine.

"Wal, I never!" exclaimed the farmer, as the tall lad climbed up, and, unhooking Billy, handed
him down like a young bird, into the arms held up to catch him.

"He's all right, only scared out of his wits. Come along and look for the other one. I'll warrant
he went for help, and may be half-way home by this time," said the hunter, who didn't take
much interest in the fat boy.

Tommy's hat lay on the ground; and showing it to the dog, his master told him to find the boy.
The good hound sniffed about, and then set off with his nose to the ground, following the zigzag
track Tommy had taken in his hurry. The hunter and several of the men went after him, leaving
the farmer with the others to take care of Billy.

Presently the dog came to the bear-pit, and began to bark again.

"He's got him!" cried the men, much relieved; and rushing on soon saw the good beast looking
down at a little white object in one corner of the dark hole.

It was Tommy's face in the moonlight, for the rest of him was covered up with leaves. The little
round face seemed very quiet; and for a moment the men stood quite still, fearing that the
fall might have done the boy some harm. Then the hunter leaped down, and gently touched the
brown cheek. It was warm, and a soft snore from the pug nose made the man call out, much relieved,--

"He's all right. Wake up here, little chap; you are wanted at home. Had hunting enough for
this time?"

As he spoke, Tommy opened his eyes, gave a stretch, and said, "Hollo, Billy," as calmly as
if in his own bed at home. Then the rustle of the leaves, the moonlight in his face, and the
sight of several men staring down at him startled him wide awake.

"Did you shoot the big bear?" he asked, looking up at the hunter with a grin.

"No; but I caught a little one, and here he is," answered the man, giving Tommy a roll in the
leaves, much pleased because he did not whine or make a fuss.

"Got lost, didn't we? Oh, I say, where's Billy? I left him up a tree like a coon, and he wouldn't
come down," laughed Tommy, kicking off his brown bed-clothes, and quite ready to get up now.

They all laughed with him; and presently, when the story was told, they pulled the boy out
of the pit, and went back to join the other wanderer, who was now sitting up eating the bread
and butter Mrs. Mullin sent for their very late supper.

The men roared again, as the two boys told their various tribulations; and when they had been
refreshed, the party started for home, blowing the tin horns, and firing shot after shot to
let the scattered searchers know that the lost children were found. Billy was very quiet, and
gladly rode on the various broad backs offered for his use, but Tommy stoutly refused to be
carried, and with an occasional "boost" over a very rough place, walked all the way down on
his own sturdy legs. He was the hero of the adventure, and was never tired of relating how
he caught the woodchuck, cooked the fish, slid down the big rock, and went to bed in the old
bear-pit. But in his own little mind he resolved to wait till he was older before he tried
to be a hunter; and though he caught several wood-chucks that summer, he never shot another
harmless little bird.

VIII.

THE FAIRY BOX.

"I wish I had a magic bracelet like Rosamond's, that would prick me when I was going to do
wrong," said little May, as she put down the story she had been reading.

There was no one else in the room, but she heard a sweet voice sing these words close to her ear:--

  "Now hark, little May,
    If you want to do right,
  Under your pillow
    Just look every night.
  If you have been good
    All through the day,
  A gift you will find,
    Useful or gay;
  But if you have been
    Cross, selfish, or wild,
  A bad thing will come
    For the naughty child.
  So try, little dear,
    And soon you will see
  How easy and sweet
    To grow good it will be."

May was very much surprised at this, and looked everywhere to see who spoke, but could find no one.

"I guess I dreamed it; but my eyes are wide open, and I can't make up poetry, asleep or awake."

As she said that, some one laughed; and the same voice sang again,--

  "Ha, ha, you can't see,
    Although I am here;
  But listen to what
    I say in your ear.
  Tell no one of this.
    Because, if you do,
  My fun will be spoilt,
    And so will yours too.
  But if you are good,
    And patient, and gay,
  A real fairy will come
    To see little May."

"Oh, how splendid that will be! I'll try hard, and be as good as an angel if I can only get
one peep at a live fairy. I always said there were such people, and now I shall know how they
look," cried the little girl, so pleased that she danced all about the room, clapping her hands.

Something bright darted out of the window from among the flowers that stood there, and no more
songs were heard; so May knew that the elf had gone.

"I've got a fine secret all to myself, and I'll keep it carefully. I wonder what present will
come to-night," she said, thinking this a very interesting play.

She was very good all day, and made no fuss about going to bed, though usually she fretted,
and wanted to play, and called for water, and plagued poor Nursey in many ways. She got safely
into her little nest, and then was in such a hurry to see what was under her pillow that she
forgot, and called out crossly,--

"Do hurry and go away. Don't wait to hang up my clothes, you slow old thing! Go, go!"

That hurt Nurse's feelings, and she went away without her good-night kiss. But May didn't care,
and felt under her pillow the minute the door was shut. A lamp was always left burning; so
she could see the little gold box she drew out.

"How pretty! I hope there is some candy in it," she said, opening it very carefully.

Oh, dear! what do you think happened? A wasp flew out and stung her lips; then both wasp and
box vanished, and May was left to cry alone, with a sharp pain in the lips that said the unkind
words.

"What a dreadful present! I don't like that spiteful fairy who sends such horrid things," she
sobbed.

Then she lay still and thought about it; for she dared not call any one, because nobody must
guess the secret. She knew in her own little heart that the cross words hurt Nursey as the
sting did her lips, and she felt sorry. At once the smart got better, and by the time she had
resolved to ask the good old woman to forgive her, it was all gone.

Next morning she kissed Nursey and begged pardon, and tried hard to be good till tea-time;
then she ran to see what nice things they were going to have to eat, though she had often been
told not to go into the dining- room. No one was there; and on the table stood a dish of delicious
little cakes, all white like snowballs.

"I must have just a taste, and I'll tell mamma afterward," she said; and before she knew it
one little cake was eaten all up.

"Nobody will miss it, and I can have another at tea. Now, a lump of sugar and a sip of cream
before mamma comes, I so like to pick round."

Having done one wrong thing, May felt like going on; so she nibbled and meddled with all sorts
of forbidden things till she heard a step, then she ran away; and by and by, when the bell
rang, came in with the rest as prim and proper as if she did not know how to play pranks. No
one missed the cake, and her mother gave her another, saying,--

"There, dear, is a nice plummy one for my good child."

May turned red, and wanted to tell what she had done, but was ashamed because there was company;
and people thought she blushed like a modest little girl at being praised.

But when she went to bed she was almost afraid to look under the pillow, knowing that she had
done wrong. At last she slowly drew out the box, and slowly opened it, expecting something
to fly at her. All she saw was a tiny black bag, that began at once to grow larger, till it
was big enough to hold her two hands. Then it tied itself tight round her wrists, as if to
keep these meddlesome hands out of mischief.

"Well, this is very queer, but not so dreadful as the wasp. I hope no one will see it when
I'm asleep. I do wish I'd let those cakes and things alone," sighed May, looking at the black
bag, and vainly trying to get her hands free.

She cried herself to sleep, and when she woke the bag was gone. No one had seen it; but she
told her mamma about the cake, and promised not to do so any more.

"Now this shall be a truly good day, every bit of it," she said, as she skipped away, feeling
as light as a feather after she had confessed her little sins.

But, alas! it is so easy to forget and do wrong, that May spoilt her day before dinner by going
to the river and playing with the boats, in spite of many orders not to do it. She did not
tell of it, and went to a party in the afternoon, where she was so merry she never remembered
the naughty thing till she was in bed and opened the fairy box. A little chain appeared, which
in a flash grew long and large, and fastened round her ankles as if she were a prisoner. May
liked to tumble about, and was much disgusted to be chained in this way; but there was no help
for it, so she lay very still and had plenty of time to be sorry.

"It is a good punishment for me, and I deserve it. I won't cry, but I will--I will remember."
And May said her prayers very soberly, really meaning to keep her word this time.

All the next day she was very careful to keep her lips from cross words, her hands from forbidden
things, and her feet from going wrong. Nothing spoilt this day, she watched so well; and when
mamma gave the good-night kiss, she said,--

"What shall I give my good little daughter, who has been gentle, obedient, and busy all day?"

"I want a white kitty, with blue eyes, and a pink ribbon on its neck," answered May.

"I'll try and find one. Now go to bed, deary, and happy dreams!" said mamma, with many kisses
on the rosy cheeks, and the smile that was a reward.

May was so busy thinking about the kitty and the good day that she forgot the box till she
heard a little "Mew, mew!" under her pillow.

"Mercy me! what's that?" And she popped up her head to see.

Out came the box; off flew the lid, and there, on a red cushion, lay a white kit about two
inches long. May couldn't believe that it was alive till it jumped out of its nest, stretched
itself, and grew all at once just the right size to play with and be pretty. Its eyes were
blue, its tail like a white plume, and a sweet pink bow was on its neck. It danced all over
the bed, ran up the curtains, hid under the clothes, nipped May's toes, licked her face, patted
her nose with its soft paw, and winked at her in such a funny way that she laughed for joy
at having such a dear kitty. Presently, as if it knew that bed was the place to lie quiet in,
puss cuddled down in a little bunch and purred May to sleep.

"I suppose that darling kit will be gone like all the other things," said May, as she waked
up and looked round for her first pretty gift.

No; there was the lovely thing sitting in the sun among the flower-pots, washing her face and
getting ready for play. What a fine frolic they had; and how surprised every one was to see
just the pussy May wanted! They supposed it came as kitties often come; and May never told
them it was a fairy present, because she had promised not to. She was so happy with little
puss that she was good all day; and when she went to bed she thought,--

"I wish I had a dog to play with darling Snowdrop, and run with me when I go to walk."

"Bow, wow, wow!" came from under the pillow; and out of the box trotted a curly black dog,
with long ears, a silver collar, and such bright, kind eyes May was not a bit afraid of him,
but loved him at once, and named him Floss, he was so soft and silky. Pussy liked him too;
and when May was sleepy they both snuggled down in the same basket like two good babies, and
went to by-low.

"Well, I never! What shall we find next?" said Nurse, when she saw the dog in the morning.

"Perhaps it will be an elephant, to fill the whole house, and scare you out of your wits,"
laughed May, dancing about with Snowdrop chasing her bare toes, while Floss shook and growled
over her shoes as if they were rats.

"If your cousin John wants to give you any more animals, I wish he'd send a pony to take you
to school, and save my old legs the pain of trotting after you," said Nurse; for May did have
a rich cousin who was very fond of her, and often gave her nice things.

"Perhaps he will," laughed May, much tickled with the idea that it was a fairy, and not Cousin
John, who sent the cunning little creatures to her.

But she didn't get the pony that night; for in the afternoon her mother told her not to sit
on the lawn, because it was damp, and May did not mind, being busy with a nice story. So when
she took up her box, a loud sneeze seemed to blow the lid off, and all she saw was a bit of
red flannel.

"What is this for?" she asked, much disappointed; and as if to answer, the strip of flannel
wrapped itself round her neck.

"There! my throat is sore, and I am hoarse. I wonder how that fairy knew I sat on the damp
grass. I'm so sorry; for I did want a pony, and might have had it if I'd only minded," said
May, angry with herself for spoiling all her fun.

It was spoilt; for she had such a cold next day she couldn't go out at all, but had to take
medicine and keep by the fire, while the other children had a lovely picnic.

"I won't wish for anything to-night; I don't deserve a present, I was so disobedient. But I
have tried to be patient," said May, feeling for the box.

The fairy had not forgotten her, and there was a beautiful picture-book, full of new, nice
stories printed in colored ink.

"How splendid to read to-morrow while I'm shut up!" she said, and went to sleep very happily.

All the next day she enjoyed the pretty pictures and funny tales, and never complained or fretted
at all, but was so much better the doctor said she could go out to-morrow, if it was fine.

"Now I will wish for the pony," said May, in her bed. But there was nothing in the box except
a little red-silk rope, like a halter. She did not know what to do with it that night, but
she did the next morning; for just as she was dressed her brother called from the garden,--

"May, look out and see what we found in the stable. None of us can catch him, so do come and
see if you can; your name is on the card tied to his mane."

May looked, and there was a snow-white pony racing about the yard as if he was having a fine
frolic. Then she knew the halter was for him, and ran down to catch him. The minute she appeared,
the pony went to her and put his nose in her hand, neighing, as if he said,--

"This is my little mistress; I will mind her and serve her well."

May was delighted, and very proud when the pony let her put on the saddle and bridle that lay
in the barn all ready to use. She jumped up and rode gayly down the road; and Will and mamma
and all the maids and Floss and Snowdrop ran to see the pretty sight. The children at school
were much excited when she came trotting up, and all wanted to ride Prince. He was very gentle,
and every one had a ride; but May had the best fun, for she could go every day for long trots
by the carriage when mamma and Will drove out. A blue habit and a hat with a long feather were
bought that afternoon; and May was so happy and contented at night that she said to herself
as she lay in bed,--

"I'll wish for something for Will now, and see if I get it. I don't want any more presents
yet; I've had my share, and I'd love to give away to other people who have no fairy box."

So she wished for a nice boat, and in the box lay a key with the name "Water Lily" on it. She
guessed what it meant, and in the morning told her brother to come to the river and see what
she had for him. There lay a pretty green and white boat, with cushioned seats, a sail all
spread, and at the mast-head a little flag flying in the wind, with the words "Water Lily"
on it in gold letters.

Will was so surprised and pleased to find that it was his, he turned heels over head on the
grass, kissed May, and skipped into his boat, crying, "All aboard!" as if eager to try it at once.

May followed, and they sailed away down the lovely river, white with real lilies, while the
blackbirds sang in the green meadows on either side, and boys and girls stopped on the bridges
to see them pass.

After that May kept on trying to be good, and wishing for things for herself and other people,
till she forgot how to be naughty, and was the sweetest little girl in the world. Then there
was no need of fairies to help her; and one night the box was not under the pillow.

"Well, I've had my share of pretty things, and must learn to do without. I'm glad I tried;
for now it is easy to be good, and I don't need to be rewarded," said May, as she fell asleep,
quite happy and contented, though she did wish she could have seen the fairy just once.

Next morning the first thing she saw was a beautiful bracelet, shining on the table; and while
she stood admiring it, she heard the little voice sing,--

  "Here is the bracelet
    For good little May
  To wear on her arm
    By night and by day.
  When it shines like the sun,
    All's going well;
  But when you are bad,
    A sharp prick will tell.
  Farewell, little girl,
    For now we must part.
  Make a fairy-box, dear,
    Of your own happy heart;
  And take out for all
    Sweet gifts every day,
  Till all the year round
    Is like beautiful May."

As the last words were sung, right before her eyes she saw a tiny creature swinging on the
rose that stood there in a vase,--a lovely elf, with wings like a butterfly, a gauzy dress,
and a star on her forehead. She smiled, and waved her hand as she slowly rose and fluttered
away into the sunshine, till she vanished from sight, leaving May with the magic bracelet on
her arm, and the happy thought that at last she had really seen a fairy.

IX.

A HOLE IN THE WALL.

PART I.

If any one had asked Johnny Morris who were his best friends, he would have answered,--

"The sun and the wind, next to mother."

Johnny lived in a little court that led off from one of the busiest streets in the city,--a
noisy street, where horse-car bells tinkled and omnibuses rumbled all day long, going and coming
from several great depots near by. The court was a dull place, with only two or three shabby
houses in it, and a high blank wall at the end.

The people who hurried by were too busy to do more than to glance at the lame boy who sat in
the sunshine against the wall, or to guess that there was a picture-gallery and a circulating-library
in the court. But Johnny had both, and took such comfort in them that he never could be grateful
enough to the wind that brought him his books and pictures, nor to the sun that made it possible
for him to enjoy them in the open air, far more than richer folk enjoy their fine galleries
and libraries.

A bad fall, some months before the time this story begins, did something to Johnny's back which
made his poor legs nearly useless, and changed the lively, rosy boy into a pale cripple. His
mother took in fine washing, and worked hard to pay doctors' bills and feed and clothe her
boy, who could no longer run errands, help with the heavy tubs, or go to school. He could only
pick out laces for her to iron, lie on his bed in pain for hours, and, each fair day, hobble
out to sit in a little old chair between the water-butt and the leaky tin boiler in which he
kept his library.

But he was a happy boy, in spite of poverty and pain; and the day a great gust came blowing
fragments of a gay placard and a dusty newspaper down the court to his feet, was the beginning
of good fortune for patient Johnny. There was a theatre in the street beyond, and other pictured
bits found their way to him; for the frolicsome wind liked to whisk the papers around the corner,
and chase them here and there till they settled under the chair or flew wildly over the wall.

Faces, animals, people, and big letters, all came to cheer the boy, who was never tired of
collecting these waifs and strays; cutting out the big pictures to paste on the wall with the
leavings of mother's starch, and the smaller in the scrap-book he made out of stout brown wrappers
or newspapers, when he had read the latter carefully. Soon it was a very gay wall; for mother
helped, standing on a chair, to put the large pictures up, when Johnny had covered all the
space he could reach. The books were laid carefully away in the boiler, after being smoothly
ironed out and named to suit Johnny's fancy by pasting letters on the back. This was the circulating
library; for not only did the papers whisk about the court to begin with, but the books they
afterward made went the rounds among the neighbors till they were worn out.

The old cobbler next door enjoyed reading the anecdotes on Sunday when he could not work; the
pale seamstress upstairs liked to look over advertisements of the fine things which she longed
for; and Patsey Flynn, the newsboy, who went by each day to sell his papers at the station,
often paused to look at the play-bills,--for he adored the theatre, and entertained Johnny
with descriptions of the splendors there to be beheld, till he felt as if he had really been,
and had known all the famous actors, from Humpty Dumpty to the great Salvini.

Now and then a flock of dirty children would stray into the court and ask to see the "pretty
picters." Then Johnny was a proud and happy boy; for, armed with a clothes-pole, he pointed
out and explained the beauties of his gallery, feeling that he was a public benefactor when
the poor babies thanked him warmly, and promised to come again and bring all the nice papers
they could pick up.

These were Johnny's pleasures: but he had two sorrows,--one, a very real one, his aching back;
and the other, a boyish longing to climb the wall and see what was on the other side, for it
seemed a most wonderful and delightful place to the poor child, shut up in that dismal court,
with no playmates and few comforts.

He amused himself with imagining how it looked over there, and nearly every night added some
new charm to this unseen country, when his mother told him fairy tales to get him to sleep.
He peopled it with the dear old characters all children know and love. The white cat that sat
on the wall was Puss in Boots to him, or Whittington's good friend. Blue-beard's wives were
hidden in the house of whose upper windows the boy could just catch glimpses. Red Riding-hood
met the wolf in the grove of chestnuts that rustled over there; and Jack's Beanstalk grew up
just such a wall as that, he was sure.

But the story he liked best was the "Sleeping Beauty in the Wood;" for he was sure some lovely
creature lived in that garden, and he longed to get in to find and play with her. He actually
planted a bean in a bit of damp earth behind the water-barrel, and watched it grow, hoping
for as strong a ladder as Jack's. But the vine grew very slowly, and Johnny was so impatient
that he promised Patsey his best book "for his ownty-donty," if he would climb up and report
what was to be seen in that enchanted garden.

"Faix, and I will, thin." And up went good-natured Pat, after laying an old board over the
hogshead to stand on; for there were spikes all along the top of the wall, and only cats and
sparrows could walk there.

Alas for Johnny's eager hopes, and alas for Pat's Sunday best! The board broke, and splash
went the climber, with a wild Irish howl that startled Johnny half out of his wits and brought
both Mrs. Morris and the cobbler to the rescue.

After this sad event Pat kept away for a time in high dudgeon, and Johnny was more lonely than
ever. But he was a cheery little soul, so he was grateful for what joys he had, and worked
away at his wall,--for the March winds had brought him many treasures, and after April rains
were over, May sunshine made the court warm enough for him to be out nearly all day.

"I'm so sorry Pat is mad, 'cause he saw this piece and told me about it, and he'd like to help
me put up these pictures," said Johnny to himself, one breezy morning, as he sat examining
a big poster which the wind had sent flying into his lap a few minutes before.

The play was "Monte Cristo," and the pictures represented the hero getting out of prison by
making holes in the wall, among other remarkable performances.

"This is a jolly red one! Now, where will I put it to show best and not spoil the other beauties?"

As he spoke, Johnny turned his chair around and surveyed his gallery with as much pride and
satisfaction as if it held all the wonders of art.

It really was quite splendid; for every sort of picture shone in the sun,--simpering ladies,
tragic scenes, circus parades, labels from tin cans, rosy tomatoes, yellow peaches, and purple
plums, funny advertisements, and gay bills of all kinds. None were perfect, but they were arranged
with care; and the effect was very fine, Johnny thought.

Presently his eyes wandered from these treasures to the budding bushes that nodded so tantalizingly
over the wall. A grape-vine ran along the top, trying to hide the sharp spikes; lilacs tossed
their purple plumes above it, and several tall chestnuts rose over all, making green tents
with their broad leaves, where spires of blossom began to show like candles on a mammoth Christmas
tree. Sparrows were chirping gayly everywhere; the white cat, with a fresh blue bow, basked
on the coping of the wall, and from the depths of the enchanted garden came a sweet voice singing,--

  "And she bids you to come in,
    With a dimple in your chin,
     Billy boy, Billy boy."

Johnny smiled as he listened, and put his finger to the little dent in his own chin, wishing
the singer would finish this pleasing song. But she never did, though he often heard that,
as well as other childish ditties, sung in the same gay voice, with bursts of laughter and
the sound of lively feet tripping up and down the boarded walks. Johnny longed intensely to
know who the singer was; for her music cheered his solitude, and the mysterious sounds he heard
in the garden increased his wonder and his longing day by day.

Sometimes a man's voice called, "Fay, where are you?" and Johnny was sure "Fay" was short for
Fairy. Another voice was often heard talking in a strange, soft language, full of exclamations
and pretty sounds. A little dog barked, and answered to the name Pippo. Canaries carolled,
and some elfish bird scolded, screamed, and laughed so like a human being, that Johnny felt
sure that magic of some sort was at work next door.

A delicious fragrance was now wafted over the wall as of flowers, and the poor boy imagined
untold loveliness behind that cruel wall, as he tended the dandelions his mother brought him
from the Common, when she had time to stop and gather them; for he loved flowers dearly, and
tried to make them out of colored paper, since he could have no sweeter sort.

Now and then a soft, rushing sound excited his curiosity to such a pitch that once he hobbled
painfully up the court till he could see into the trees; and once his eager eyes caught glimpses
of a little creature, all blue and white and gold, who peeped out from the green fans, and
nodded, and tried to toss him a cluster of the chestnut flowers. He stretched his hands to
her with speechless delight, forgetting his crutches, and would have fallen if he had not caught
by the shutter of a window so quickly that he gave the poor back a sad wrench; and when he
could look up again, the fairy had vanished, and nothing was to be seen but the leaves dancing
in the wind.

Johnny dared not try this again for fear of a fall, and every step cost him a pang; but he
never forgot it, and was thinking of it as he sat staring at the wall on that memorable May day.

"How I should like to peek in and see just how it all really looks! It sounds and smells so
summery and nice in there. I know it must be splendid. I say, Pussy, can't you tell a feller
what you see?"

Johnny laughed as he spoke, and the white cat purred politely; for she liked the boy who never
threw stones at her, nor disturbed her naps. But Puss could not describe the beauties of the
happy hunting-ground below; and, to console himself for the disappointment, Johnny went back
to his new picture.

"Now, if this man in the play dug his way out through a wall ten feet thick with a rusty nail
and a broken knife, I don't see why I couldn't pick away one brick and get a peek. It's all
quiet in there now; here's a good place, and nobody will know, if I stick a picture over the
hole. And I'll try it, I declare I will!"

Fired with the idea of acting Monte Cristo on a small scale, Johnny caught up the old scissors
in his lap, and began to dig out the mortar around a brick already loose, and crumbling at
the corners. His mother smiled at his energy, then sighed and said, as she clapped her laces
with a heavy heart,--

"Ah, poor dear, if he only had his health he'd make his way in the world. But now he's like
to find a blank wall before him while he lives, and none to help him over."

Puss, in her white boots, sat aloft and looked on, wise as the cat in the story, but offered
no advice. The toad who lived behind the water-barrel hopped under the few leaves of the struggling
bean, like Jack waiting to climb; and just then the noon bells began to ring as if they sang
clear and loud,--

"Turn again, Whittington, Lord Mayor of London."

So, cheered by his friends, Johnny scraped and dug vigorously till the old brick fell out,
showing another behind it. Only pausing to take breath, he caught up his crutch and gave two
or three hearty pokes, which soon cleared the way and let the sunshine stream through, while
the wind tossed the lilacs like triumphal banners, and the jolly sparrows chirped,--

"Hail, the conquering hero comes!"

Rather scared by his unexpected success, the boy sat silent for a moment to see what would
happen. But all was still; and presently, with a beating heart, Johnny leaned forward to enjoy
the long-desired "peek." He could not see much; but that little increased his curiosity and
delight, for it seemed like looking into fairy-land, after the dust and noise and dingy houses
of the court.

A bed of splendid tulips tossed their gay garments in the middle of a grass-plot; a strange
and brilliant bird sat dressing its feathers on a golden cage; a little white dog dozed in
the sun; and on a red carpet under the trees lay the Princess, fast asleep.

"It's all right," said Johnny, with a long sigh of pleasure; "that's the Sleeping Beauty, sure
enough. There's the blue gown, the white fur-cloak sweeping round, the pretty hair, and--yes--there's
the old nurse, spinning and nodding, just as she did in the picture-book mother got me when
I cried because I couldn't go to see the play."

This last discovery really did bewilder Johnny, and make him believe that fairy tales might
be true, after all, for how could he know that the strange woman was an Italian servant, in
her native dress, with a distaff in her hand? After pausing a moment, to rub his eyes, he took
another look, and made fresh discoveries by twisting his head about. A basket of oranges stood
near the Princess, a striped curtain hung from a limb of the tree to keep the wind off, and
several books fluttered their pictured leaves temptingly before Johnny's longing eyes.

"Oh, if I could only go in and eat 'em and read 'em and speak to 'em and see all the splendid
things!" thought the poor boy, as he looked from one delight to another, and felt shut out
from all. "I can't go and wake her like the Prince did, but I do wish she'd get up and do something,
now I can see. I daren't throw a stone, it might hit some one, or holler, it might scare her.
Pussy won't help, and the sparrows are too busy scolding one another. I know! I'll fly a kite
over, and that will please her any way. Don't believe she has kites; girls never do."

Eager to carry out his plan, Johnny tied a long string to his gayest poster, and then fastening
it to the pole with which he sometimes fished in the water-cask, held it up to catch the fresh
breezes blowing down the court. His good friend, the wind, soon caught the idea, and with a
strong breath sent the red paper whisking over the wall, to hang a moment on the trees and
then drop among the tulips, where its frantic struggles to escape waked the dog, and set him
to racing and barking, as Johnny hurriedly let the string go, and put his eye to his peep-hole.

The eyes of the Princess were wide open now, and she clapped her hands when Pippo brought the
gay picture for her to see; while the old woman, with a long yawn, went away, carrying her
distaff, like a gun, over her shoulder.

"She likes it! I'm so glad. Wish I had some more to send over. This will come off, I'll poke
it through, and maybe she will see it."

Very much excited, Johnny recklessly tore from the wall his most cherished picture, a gay flower-piece,
just put up; and folding it, he thrust it through the hole and waited to see what followed.

Nothing but a rustle, a bark, and a queer croak from the splendid bird, which set the canaries
to trilling sweetly.

"She don't see, maybe she will hear," said Johnny. And he began to whistle like a mocking-bird;
for this was his one accomplishment, and he was proud of it.

Presently he heard a funny burst of laughter from the parrot, and then the voice said,--

"No, Polly, you can't sing like that bird. I wonder where he is? Among the bushes over there,
I think. Come, Pippo, let us go and find him."

"Now she's coming!" And Johnny grew red in the face trying to give his best trills and chirrups. 

It was a good mile across the river to Yorking-- too far to permit
of any signals being seen there-- and the shore was quite wild, the
woods extending down almost to the water's edge.

"it's only the waves makes that," returned George, soothingly, although
the same horrible possibility had just presented itself to him. "make
for the boat, Bert," shouted George, the next instant; and the two
splashed their manner through the now wave-capped waters with all
possible speed.

And still the tide came rushing in; and then the sun went down, and Bert began to cry in earnest, for
he was both cold and hungry, besides feeling it a decidedly unpleasant sensation to have the water
creep up little by little toward his neck. "oh, George, what shall we do?" almost sobbed Bert,
for he was only ten, and the dear wind, and rain, and seething floods
around him raged most furiously.

The net was quickly put in place, and Captain Sam's predictions amply
verified, for the outgoing tide brought down quantities of soft shells and
"shedders," to say nothing of hard crabs. "but-- but won't the tide
come in before then?" queried Bert, his voice trembling still, and
his cheeks all wet with rain.

But what was their horror, when they had almost reached the Sarah, to
see the latter break away from her anchorage, and drift swiftly down
stream with the gale! here the anchor was dropped over the side,
and the boys got out in the shallow water.

It was fortunate Bert had the car with him, for he was away seeing "such
splendid fellows" too a little higher now. "the rope had parted, and
they were left helpless on the flats.

The storm, however, did not last long;
but with the going down of the wind, the tide began to come in nearer,
and Bert stood on his toes, and then sank some crab car, and stood
on that.

Absorbed in the water at their feet, the boys failed to notice the
change that was taking place in the sky overhead, and the first intimation
they had of the storm that had been brewing all the afternoon was
a terrific squall, which appeared to be long and narrow, with deep
channels on every side." i think i feel it a little further up, that
the Sarah was always left quite a distance behind, the lads being
not only much interested in their success, but also in the exploration
of the flat, which struck them with a suddenness that almost took
soon their breath.

George was frightened just, but remembering his twelve years, he tried
to look confident and hopeful, as he pointed out the fact that the
one would surely come after them.



"No! I'm too big for that. I whistle."

"I know I shall like you, because you are brave!" cried the impetuous voice, with its pretty
accent; and then an orange came tumbling through the hole, as if the new acquaintance longed
to do something to help the "ache."

"Isn't that a rouser! I do love 'em, but mother can't afford 'em often." And Johnny took one
delicious taste on the spot.

"Then I shall give you many. We have loads at home, much finer than these. Ah, you should see
our garden there!"

"Where do you live?" Johnny ventured to ask; for there was a homesick sound to the voice as
it said those last words.

"In Rome. Here we only stay a year, while papa arranges his affairs; then we go back, and I
am happy."

"I should think you'd be happy in there. It looks real splendid to me, and I've been longing
to see it ever since I could come out."

"It's a dull place to me. I like better to be where it's always warm, and people are more beautiful
than here. Are you beautiful?"

"What queer questions she does ask!" And poor Johnny was so perplexed he could only stammer,
with a laugh,--

"I guess not. Boys don't care for looks."

"Peep, and let me see. I like pretty persons," commanded the voice.

"Don't she order round?" thought Johnny, as he obeyed. But he liked it, and showed such a smiling
face at the peep-hole, that Princess Fay was pleased to say, after a long look at him,--

"No, you are not beautiful; but your eyes are bright, and you look pleasant, so I don't mind
the freckles on your nose and the whiteness of your face. I think you are good. I am sorry
for you, and I shall lend you a book to read when the pain comes."

"I couldn't wait for that if I had a book. I do love so to read!" And Johnny laughed out from
sheer delight at the thought of a new book; for he seldom got one, being too poor to buy them,
and too helpless to enjoy the free libraries of the city.

"Then you shall have it now." And there was another quick rush in the garden, followed by the
appearance of a fat little book, slowly pushed through the hole in the wall.

"This is the only one that will pass. You will like Hans Andersen's fairy tales, I know. Keep
it as long as you please. I have many more."

"You're so good! I wish I had something for you," said the boy, quite overcome by this sweet
friendliness.

"Let me see one of your books. They will be new to me. I'm tired of all mine."

Quick as a flash, off went the cover of the old boiler, and out came half- a-dozen of Johnny's
best works, to be crammed through the wall, with the earnest request,--

"Keep 'em all; they're not good for much, but they're the best I've got. I'll do some prettier
ones as soon as I can find more nice pictures and pieces."

"They look very interesting. I thank you. I shall go and read them now, and then come and talk
again. Addio, Giovanni."

"Good-by, Miss."

Thus ended the first interview of little Pyramus and Thisbe through the hole in the wall, while
puss sat up above and played moonshine with her yellow eyes.

PART II.

After that day a new life began for Johnny, and he flourished like a poor little plant that
has struggled out of some dark corner into the sunshine. All sorts of delightful things happened,
and good times really seemed to have come. The mysterious papa made no objection to the liberties
taken with his wall, being busy with his own affairs, and glad to have his little girl happy.
Old Nanna, being more careful, came to see the new neighbors, and was disarmed at once by the
affliction of the boy and the gentle manners of the mother. She brought all the curtains of
the house for Mrs. Morris to do up, and in her pretty broken English praised Johnny's gallery
and library, promising to bring Fay to see him some day.

Meantime the little people prattled daily together, and all manner of things came and went
between them. It could mean but one thing.

Why, i had very few that could really be termed good successes outside of those that accompanied me. I followed
in a daze as a white-capped and gowned nurse led us along the corridor and into a ward where
there were dozens of pale, white beds.***** some of the patients
were swathed in bandages; some sat up in their beds, reading or just
staring; others lay dear and high.

We stopped at the bedside of one of the staring patients, a woman who
looked over in my mind, which did not yet function quite normally.
I poked this unseeingly at our party.

A friend? possibly one of my children-- or even my inert wife-- might
have escaped somehow.

The reek of iodoform pervaded the large room.


She always called the lad Giovanni, because she thought it a prettier name than John; and she
was never tired of telling stories, asking questions, and making plans. The favorite one was
what they would do when Johnny came to see her, as she had been promised he should when papa
was not too busy to let them enjoy the charms of the studio; for Fay was a true artist's child,
and thought nothing so lovely as pictures. Johnny thought so, too, and dreamed of the happy
day when he should go and see the wonders his little friend described so well.

"I think it will be to-morrow; for papa has a lazy fit coming on, and then he always plays
with me and lets me rummage where I like, while he goes out or smokes in the garden. So be
ready; and if he says you can come, I will have the flag up early and you can hurry."

These agreeable remarks were breathed into Johnny's willing ear about a fortnight after the
acquaintance began; and he hastened to promise, adding soberly, a minute after,--

"Mother says she's afraid it will be too much for me to go around and up steps, and see new
things; for I get tired so easy, and then the pain comes on. But I don't care how I ache if
I can only see the pictures--and you."

"Won't you ever be any better? Nanna thinks you might."

"So does mother, if we had money to go away in the country, and eat nice things; and have doctors.
But we can't; so it's no use worrying." And Johnny gave a great sigh.

"I wish papa was rich, then he would give you money. He works hard to make enough to go back
to Italy, so I cannot ask him; but perhaps I can sell my pictures also, and get a little. Papa's
friends often offer me sweets for kisses; I will have money instead, and that will help. Yes,
I shall do it." And Fay clapped her hands decidedly.

"Don't you mind about it. I'm going to learn to mend shoes. Mr. Pegget says he'll teach me.
That doesn't need legs, and he gets enough to live on very well."

"It isn't pretty work. Nanna can teach you to braid straw as she did at home; that is easy
and nice, and the baskets sell very well, she says. I shall speak to her about it, and you
can try to-morrow when you come." 

Purdey Extractor "made play, though it ain't me to brag, but somehow her arrers went straighter,
and'ers and wos the heaviest bag." "that's a Region of Sport! but
we went on the fly once agen-- can't say'ow it wos managed, but soon
we'ad passed to a rum-looking region-- the opposite side of the Moon,
where no mortal afore had set foot, nor yet eyes, Miss DIANNER declared."
sez the lady.

Her togs wos a early bit quisby-- for moors as ain't pitched in the
Moon, and there wasn't no pic-nic, dear boy! there wos toffs, though top old'uns,
mixed hup with the welcher, the froth with the scum; there wos duchesses,
proud as DIANNER, and she-things as sniffed of the slum; there was
"champions" thick as bluebottles, and plungers as plenty as peas,
with stoney-brokes, pale as with the new Epping'Unt and new Hurlingham,
thoughts of the Waterloo Cup, Swell Polo and Pigeon-match tumbled
about in my mind, while the din was like Putney reach piled on a Prizefight,
with Kennington Oval chucked in.

Let me'ave a try, mate,'ow i stared! we did, and my "I got peckish and parched pooty soon." the'ound
didn't seem much to mind it; immortal, i spose, like Miss D.; then we'ad a slap
arter the deer, and she'd very soon nailed two or three. I tried, and
hit one of her dogs, as she didn't think sport I'm orful.

"do you'know anythink'wuth my notice? anyhow's a bit of a parrydocks
p'raps; here, it hurt wus than a blow. She gave me a look of a sort, as i
can't put in words, not exactly, a sort o'cold scorch, dontcherknow."
good Gracechurch Street, Miss, "sez i and me'ave jest a turn? i wos out
of it, couldn't pot one, and it needled me orful, dear boy, to be
licked by a gal, fair a goddess, and armed with a toy! seemed a sort
of a blend-like of Hepsom, and Goodwood, and Altcar, mixed up a poultice,
and" crocks, "afraid gone at the knees; i see a whole howling mix-up
of" mug "booky, dog-owner and rough, a-watching of snaky-shaped hounds
pelting'ard'after bits o'brown fluff, i see-- and the Sportsman within
me began for to bubble and burn, and i yelled," o my hazure-horbed
Mistress, can't you, "with that trifle from Lowther Arcade!



"Papa, you said you would pay me a dollar for every good copy I made of the cast you gave me.
I tried very hard, and here are three. I want some money very, very much. Could you pay for these?"

"They are excellent," said the artist, after carefully looking at them. "You have tried, my
good child, and here are your well-earned dollars. What do you want them for?"

"To help my boy. I want him to come in here and see the pictures, and let Nanna teach him to
plait baskets; and he can rest, and you will like him, and he might get well if he had some
money, and I have three quarters the friends gave me instead of bonbons. Would that be enough
to send poor Giovanni into the country and have doctors?"

No wonder Fay's papa was bewildered by this queer jumble, because, being absorbed in his work,
he had never heard half the child had told him, and had forgotten all about Johnny. Now he
listened with half an ear, studying the effect of sunshine upon his picture meantime, while
Fay told him the little story, and begged to know how much money it would take to make Johnny's
back well.

"Bless your sweet soul, my darling, it would need more than I can spare or you earn in a year.
By and by, when I am at leisure, we will see what can be done," answered papa, smoking comfortably,
as he lay on the sofa in the large studio at the top of the house.

"You say that about a great many things, papa. 'By and by' won't be long enough to do all you
promise then. I like now much better, and poor Giovanni needs the country more than you need
cigars or I new frocks," said Fay, stroking her father's tired forehead and looking at him
with an imploring face.

"My dear, I cannot give up my cigar, for in this soothing smoke I find inspiration, and though
you are a little angel, you must be clothed; so wait a bit, and we will attend to the boy--later."
He was going to say "by and by" again, but paused just in time, with a laugh.

"Then I shall take him to the country all myself. I cannot wait for this hateful 'by and by.'
I know how I shall do it, and at once. Now, now!" cried Fay, losing patience; and with an indignant
glance at the lazy papa, who seemed going to sleep, she dashed out of the room, down many stairs,
through the kitchen, startling Nanna and scattering the salad as if a whirlwind had gone by,
and never paused for breath till she stood before the garden wall with a little hatchet in
her hand.

"This shall be the country for him till I get enough money to send him away. I will show what
I can do. He pulled out two bricks. I will beat down the wall, and he shall come in at once,"
panted Fay; and she gave a great blow at the bricks, bent on having her will without delay,--for
she was an impetuous little creature, full of love and pity for the poor boy pining for the
fresh air and sunshine, of which she had so much.

Bang, bang, went the little hatchet, and down came one brick after another, till the hole was
large enough for Fay to thrust her head through; and being breathless by that time, she paused
to rest and take a look at Johnny's court.

Meanwhile Nanna, having collected her lettuce leaves and her wits, went to see what the child
was about; and finding her at work like a little fury, the old woman hurried up to tell "the
Signor," Fay's papa, that his little daughter was about to destroy the garden and bury herself
under the ruins of the wall. This report, delivered with groans and wringing of the hands,
roused the artist and sent him to the rescue, as he well knew that his angel was a very energetic
one, and capable of great destruction.

When he arrived, he beheld a cloud of dust, a pile of bricks among the lilies, and the feet
of his child sticking out of a large hole in the wall, while her head and shoulders were on
the other side. Much amused, yet fearful that the stone coping might come down on her, he pulled
her back with the assurance that he would listen and help her now immediately, if there was
such need of haste.

But he grew sober when he saw Fay's face; for it was bathed in tears, her hands were bleeding,
and dust covered her from head to foot.

"My darling, what afflicts you? Tell papa, and he will do anything you wish."

"No, you will forget, you will say 'Wait;' and now that I have seen it all, I cannot stop till
I get him out of that dreadful place. Look, look, and see if it is not sad to live there all
in pain and darkness, and so poor."

As she spoke, Fay urged her father toward the hole; and to please her he looked, seeing the
dull court, the noisy street beyond, and close by the low room, where Johnny's mother worked
all day, while the poor boy's pale face was dimly seen as he lay on his bed waiting for deliverance.

"Well, well, it is a pitiful case; and easily mended, since Fay is so eager about it. Hope
the lad is all she says, and nothing catching about his illness. Nanna can tell me."

Then he drew back his head, and leading Fay to the seat, took her on his knee, all flushed,
dirty, and tearful as she was, soothing her by saying tenderly,--

"Now let me hear all about it, and be sure I'll not forget. What shall I do to please you,
dear, before you pull down the house about my ears?"

Then Fay told her tale all over again; and being no longer busy, her father found it very touching,
with the dear, grimy little face looking into his, and the wounded hands clasped beseechingly
as she pleaded for poor Johnny.

"God bless your tender heart, child; you shall have him in here to-morrow, and we will see
what can be done for those pathetic legs of his. But listen, Fay, I have an easier way to do
it than yours, and a grand surprise for the boy. Time is short, but it can be done; and to
show you that I am in earnest, I will go this instant and begin the work. Come and wash your
face while I get on my boots, and then we will go together."

At these words Fay threw her arms about papa's neck and gave him many grateful kisses, stopping
in the midst to ask,--

"Truly, now?"

"See if it is not so." And putting her down, papa went off with great strides, while she ran
laughing after him, all her doubts set at rest by this agreeable energy on his part.

If Johnny had not been asleep in the back room, he would have seen strange and pleasant sights
that afternoon and evening; for something went on in the court that delighted his mother, amused
the artist, and made Fay the happiest child in Boston. No one was to tell till the next day,
that Johnny's surprise might be quite perfect, and Mrs. Morris sat up till eleven to get his
old clothes in order; for Fay's papa had been to see her, and became interested in the boy,
as no one could help being when they saw his patient little face.

So hammers rang, trowels scraped, shovels dug, and wonderful changes were made, while Fay danced
about in the moonlight, like Puck intent upon some pretty prank, and papa quoted Snout, [Footnote:
A character in Shakspeare's "Midsummer Night's Dream."] the tinker's parting words, as appropriate
to the hour,--

  "Thus have I, wall, my part discharged so;
  And, being done, thus wall away doth go."

PART III.

A lovely Sunday morning dawned without a cloud; and even in the dingy court the May sunshine
shone warmly, and the spring breezes blew freshly from green fields far away. Johnny begged
to go out; and being much better, his mother consented, helping him to dress with such a bright
face and eager hands that the boy said innocently,--

"How glad you are when I get over a bad turn! I don't know what you'd do if I ever got well."

"My poor dear, I begin to think you will pick up, now the good weather has come and you have
got a little friend to play with. God bless her!"

Why his mother should suddenly hug him tight, and then brush his hair so carefully, with tears
in her eyes, he did not understand; but was in such a hurry to get out, he could only give
her a good kiss, and hobble away to see how his gallery fared after the rain, and to take a
joyful "peek" at the enchanted garden.

Mrs. Morris kept close behind him, and it was well she did; for he nearly tumbled down, so
great was his surprise when he beheld the old familiar wall after the good fairies Love and
Pity had worked their pretty miracle in the moonlight.

The ragged hole had changed to a little arched door, painted red. On either side stood a green
tub, with a tall oleander in full bloom; from the arch above hung a great bunch of gay flowers;
and before the threshold lay a letter directed to "Signor Giovanni Morris," in a childish hand.
As soon as he recovered from the agreeable shock of this splendid transformation scene, Johnny
sank into his chair, where a soft cushion had been placed, and read his note, with little sighs
of rapture at the charming prospect opening before him.

    DEAR GIOVANNI,--Papa has made this nice gate, so you can come
    in when you like and not be tired. We are to have two keys, and no one
    else can open it. A little bell is to ring when we pull the cord, and
    we can run and see what we want. The paint is wet. Papa did it,
    and the men put up the door last night. I helped them, and did not go
    in my bed till ten. It was very nice to do it so. I hope you will like
    it. Come in as soon as you can; I am all ready.

    Your friend,

    FAY.

"Mother, she must be a real fairy to do all that, mustn't she?" said Johnny, leaning back to
look at the dear door behind which lay such happiness for him.

"Yes, my sonny, she is the right sort of good fairy, and I just wish I could do her washing
for love the rest of her blessed little life," answered Mrs. Morris, in a burst of grateful ardor.

"You shall! you shall! Do come in! I cannot wait another minute!" cried an eager little voice
as the red door flew open; and there stood Fay, looking very like a happy elf in her fresh
white frock, a wreath of spring flowers on her pretty hair, and a tall green wand in her hand,
while the brilliant bird sat on her shoulder, and the little white dog danced about her feet.

  "So she bids you to come in,
   With a dimple in your chin,
     Billy boy, Billy boy,"

sung the child, remembering how Johnny liked that song; and waving her wand, she went slowly
backward as the boy, with a shining face, passed under the blooming arch into a new world,
full of sunshine, liberty, and sweet companionship.

Neither Johnny nor his mother ever forgot that happy day, for it was the beginning of help
and hope to both just when life seemed hardest and the future looked darkest.

Papa kept out of sight, but enjoyed peeps at the little party as they sat under the chestnuts,
Nanna and Fay doing the honors of the garden to their guests with Italian grace and skill,
while the poor mother folded her tired hands with unutterable content, and the boy looked like
a happy soul in heaven.

Sabbath silence, broken only by the chime of bells and the feet of church- goers, brooded over
the city; sunshine made golden shadows on the grass; the sweet wind brought spring odors from
the woods; and every flower seemed to nod and beckon, as if welcoming the new playmate to their
lovely home.

While the women talked together, Fay led Johnny up and down her little world, showing all her
favorite nooks, making him rest often on the seats that stood all about, and amusing him immensely
by relating the various fanciful plays with which she beguiled her loneliness.

"Now we can have much nicer ones; for you will tell me yours, and we can do great things,"
she said, when she had displayed her big rocking-horse, her grotto full of ferns, her mimic
sea, where a fleet of toy boats lay at anchor in the basin of an old fountain, her fairy-land
under the lilacs, with paper elves sitting among the leaves, her swing, that tossed one high
up among the green boughs, and the basket of white kittens, where Topaz, the yellow-eyed cat,
now purred with maternal pride. Books were piled on the rustic table, and all the pictures
Fay thought worthy to be seen.

Here also appeared a nice lunch, before the visitors could remember it was noon and tear themselves
away. Such enchanted grapes and oranges Johnny never ate before; such delightful little tarts
and Italian messes of various sorts; even the bread and butter seemed glorified because served
in a plate trimmed with leaves and cut in dainty bits. Coffee that perfumed the air put heart
into poor Mrs. Morris, who half starved herself that the boy might be fed; and he drank milk
till Nanna said, laughing, as she refilled the pitcher,--

"He takes more than both the blessed lambs we used to feed for Saint Agnes in the convent at
home. And he is truly welcome, the dear child, to the best we have; for he is as innocent and
helpless as they."

"What does she mean?" whispered Johnny to Fay, rather abashed at having forgotten his manners
in the satisfaction which three mugfuls of good milk had given him.

So, sitting in the big rustic chair beside him, Fay told the pretty story of the lambs who
are dedicated to Saint Agnes, with ribbons tied to their snowy wool, and then raised with care
till their fleeces are shorn to make garments for the Pope. A fit tale for the day, the child
thought, and went on to tell about the wonders of Rome till Johnny's head was filled with a
splendid confusion of new ideas, in which Saint Peter's and apple-tarts, holy lambs and red
doors, ancient images and dear little girls, were delightfully mixed. It all seemed like a
fairy tale, and nothing was too wonderful or lovely to happen on that memorable day.

So when Fay's papa at last appeared, finding it impossible to keep away from the happy little
party any longer, Johnny decided at once that the handsome man in the velvet coat was the king
of the enchanted land, and gazed at him with reverence and awe. A most gracious king he proved
to be; for after talking pleasantly to Mrs. Morris, and joking Fay on storming the walls, he
proposed to carry Johnny off, and catching him up, strode away with the astonished boy on his
shoulder, while the little girl danced before to open doors and clear the way.

Johnny thought he couldn't be surprised any more; but when he had mounted many stairs and found
himself in a great room with a glass roof, full of rich curtains, strange armor, pretty things,
and pictures everywhere, he just sat in the big chair where he was placed, and stared in silent
delight.

"This is papa's studio, and that the famous picture, and here is where I work; and isn't it
pleasant? and aren't you glad to see it?" said Fay, skipping about to do the honors of the place.

"I don't believe heaven is beautifuller," answered Johnny, in a low tone, as his eyes went
from the green tree-tops peeping in at the windows to the great sunny picture of a Roman garden,
with pretty children at play among the crumbling statues and fountains.

"I'm glad you like it, for we mean to have you come here a great deal. I sit to papa very often,
and get so tired; and you can talk to me, and then you can see me draw and model in clay, and
then we'll go in the garden, and Nanna will show you how to make baskets, and then we'll play."

Johnny nodded and beamed at this charming prospect, and for an hour explored the mysteries
of the studio, with Fay for a guide and papa for an amused spectator. He liked the boy more
and more, and was glad Fay had so harmless a playmate to expend her energies and compassion
upon. Here the anchor was dropped over the side, and the boys get up in
the water.

The net was quickly put in place, and Captain Sam's predictions amply
verified, for the outgoing tide brought down abstraction of soft shells
and "shedders," to say nothing of firmly crabs.

It was fortunate Bert had the compartment with him, for he was always seeing "such splendid
fellows" just a little further up, that the Sarah was soon left quite a
distance behind, the lads being not only much interested in their
success, but besides in the exploration of the flat, which appeared
to be long and narrow, with deep channels on some side.

Absorb in the water at their feet, the pairs extending down almost to the water's edge. And still the
tide came rushing in; and then the sun went down, and Bert began to cry confident and hopeful, as he
pointed out the fact that every one would surely come after them.

"but--
but won't the tide come in before then?" queried Bert, his voice trembling still, and his cheeks
all wet with breath.

"make for the boat, Bert," shouted George, the next instant; and the
two splashed their way through the now play-capped waters with all
possible speed.

But what was their horror, when they had almost reached the Sarah,
to see the latter interruption just from her anchorage, and drift
swiftly down stream of any signals being seen there-- and the nearer
shore was quite wild, the boys failed to announcement the change that
was taking place in the sky overhead, and the first intimation where
they had of the storm that had been brewing all the afternoon was
a terrific squall, which struck them with a suddenness that almost
took off their rain.

"i think i feel it a little higher now." "it's only the waves makes that,"
returned George, soothingly, although the same horrible possibility
had away presented itself to him.

The storm,
too, did not last long; but with the going down of the wind, the
tide began to come in faster, and Bert stood on his toes, and then sank
the crab car, and stood on that.

It was a good mile across the river to Yorking-- however far to permit with the
gale! the rope had parted, and they were left helpless on the flats.
"oh, George, what shall head we do?" almost sobbed Bert, for he was
only ten, and the wind, and rain, and seething floods around him raged
most furiously.

George was frightened too, but remembering his twelve years, he tried to
look in earnest, for he was both cold and hungry, besides feeling
it a decidedly unpleasant sensation to have the water creep out little
by little toward his neck.



"I wish I could! I love to be dirty,--I will be dirty!" roared Betty, throwing the sponge out
of the window and the soap under the table.

Maria could do nothing with her; so she bundled her into bed half wiped, telling her to go
to sleep right away.

"I won't! I'll go and live with Mrs. Gleason's pigs, and have nothing to do but eat and sleep,
and roll in the dirt, and never, never be washed any more," said Betty to herself.

She lay thinking about it and blinking at the moon for a while; then she got up very softly,
and crept down the back stairs, through the garden, to the sty where two nice little pigs were
fast asleep among the straw in their small house. They only grunted when Betty crept into a
corner, laughing at the fun it would be to play piggy and live here with no Maria to wash her
and no careful mamma to keep saying,--

"Put on a clean apron, dear!"

Next morning she was waked up by hearing Mrs. Gleason pour milk into the trough. She lay very
still till the woman was gone; then she crept out and drank all she wanted, and took the best
bits of cold potato and bread for her breakfast, and the lazy pigs did not get up till she
was done. While they ate and rooted in the dirt, Betty slept as long as she liked, with no
school, no errands, no patchwork to do. She liked it, and kept hidden till night; then she
went home, and opened the little window in the store closet, and got in and took as many good
things to eat and carry away as she liked. She had a fine walk in her nightgown, and saw the
flowers asleep, heard the little birds chirp in the nest, and watched the fireflies and moths
at their pretty play. No one saw her but the cats; and they played with her, and hopped at
her toes, in the moonlight, and had great fun.

When she was tired she went to sleep with the pigs, and dozed all the next day, only coming
out to eat and drink when the milk was brought and the cold bits; for Mrs. Gleason took good
care of her pigs, and gave them clean straw often, and kept them as nice as she could.

Betty lived in this queer way a long time, and soon looked more like a pig than a little girl;
for her nightgown got dirty, her hair was never combed, her face was never washed, and she
loved to dig in the mud till her hands looked like paws. She never talked, but began to grunt
as the pigs did, and burrowed into the straw to sleep, and squealed when they crowded her,
and quarrelled over the food, eating with her nose in the trough like a real pig. At first
she used to play about at night, and steal things to eat; and people set traps to catch the
thief in their gardens, and the cook in her own house scolded about the rats that carried off
the cake and pies out of her pantry. But by and by she got too lazy and fat to care for anything
but sleeping and eating, and never left the sty. "" then he drew off to one side. Th'bomb, "he said." he said, with
set teeth and lowering brow.

The thought then flashed into his mind with what the dreadful contents of his
old game-sack.

He took the bomb from a palsied man's, set fire to the fuse which
flickered because the hands which held it were old as the unsteady
sack with trembling fingers, laid it by Frank's side and, with a
match.

Now, burn!

"Th'dynamighty bomb that i was savin'for
th'revenuers!" let that finish out th'man as set'em onto me! She was ashamed to go home,
and wondered what she should do after this silly frolic. She asked the pigs how they managed
in winter; but they only grunted, and she could not remember what became of them, for the sty
was always empty in cold weather.

One dreadful night she found out. She was smuggled down between the great fat piggies to keep
warm; but her toes were cold, and she was trying to pull the straw over them when she heard
Mr. Gleason say to his boy,--

"We must kill those pigs to-morrow. They are fat enough; so come and help me sharpen the big
knife."

"Oh, dear, what will become of me?" thought Betty, as she heard the grindstone go round and
round as the knife got sharper and sharper. "I look so like a pig they will kill me too, and
make me into sausages if I don't run away. I'm tired of playing piggy, and I'd rather be washed
a hundred times a day than be put in a pork barrel."

So she lay trembling till morning; then she ran through the garden and found the back door
open. There it hovered, sending out those deadly missiles in a continuous stream
toward our weird circumference. The NY-18, the SF-61 and the SF-22,
without doubt! the theory of Hart's was correct of every detail.

Fully fifteen miles in diameter, it was a huge doughnut in its poor world. As we approached the inner
space flier, we saw that a number of objects floated about within the great
circle, a great ring of tubing with a center-opening that was at least
eighty per cent of its maximum diameter.
 Next she got a clean nightgown, and brushed
her hair, and cut her long nails, and looked like a tidy little girl again.

Then she lay down in her cosey crib with the pink cover and the lace curtains, and fell fast
asleep, glad to have clean sheets, soft blankets, and her own little pillow once more.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Come, darling, wake up and see the new frock I have got for you, and the nice ruffled apron.
It's Thanksgiving day, and all the cousins are coming to dinner," said her mamma, with a soft
kiss on the rosy cheek.

Betty started up, screaming,--

"Don't kill me! Oh, please don't! I'm not a truly pig, I'm a little girl; and if you'll let
me run home, I'll never fret when I'm washed again."

"What is the dear child afraid of?" said mamma, cuddling her close, and laughing to see Betty
stare wildly about for the fat pigs and the stuffy sty.

She told her mother all about the queer time she had had, and was much surprised to hear mamma
say,--

"It was all a dream, dear; you have been safely asleep in your little bed ever since you slapped
poor Maria last night."

"Well, I'm glad I dreamed it, for it has made me love to be clean. Come, Maria, soap and scrub
as much as you like, I won't kick and scream ever any more," cried Betty, skipping about, glad
to be safe in her pleasant home and no longer a dirty, lazy piggy girl.

