THE WANDERING JEW'S SENTENCE.

The site is wild and rugged. It is a lofty eminence covered with huge boulders of sandstone,
between which rise birch trees and oaks, their foliage already yellowed by autumn. These tall
trees stand out from the background of red light, which the sun has left in the west, resembling
the reflection of a great fire.

From this eminence the eye looks down into a deep valley, shady, fertile, and half-veiled in
light vapor by the evening mist. The rich meadows, the tufts of bushy trees the fields from
which the ripe corn has been gathered in, all blend together in one dark, uniform tint, which
contrasts with the limpid azure of the heavens. Steeples of gray stone or slate lift their
pointed spires, at intervals, from the midst of this valley; for many villages are spread about
it, bordering a high-road which leads from the north to the west.

It is the hour of repose--the hour when, for the most part, every cottage window brightens
to the joyous crackling of the rustic hearth, and shines afar through shade and foliage, whilst
clouds of smoke issue from the chimneys, and curl up slowly towards the sky. But now, strange
to say, every hearth in the country seems cold and deserted. Stranger and more fatal still,
every steeple rings out a funeral knell. Whatever there is of activity, movement, or life,
appears concentrated in that lugubrious and far-sounding vibration.

Lights begin to show themselves in the dark villages, but they rise not from the cheerful and
pleasant rustic hearth. They are as red as the fires of the herdsmen, seen at night through
the midst of the fog. And then these lights do not remain motionless. They creep slowly towards
the churchyard of every village. Louder sounds the death-knell, the air trembles beneath the
strokes of so many bells, and, at rare intervals, the funeral chant rises faintly to the summit
of the hill.

Why so many interments? What valley of desolation is this, where the peaceful songs which follow
the hard labors of the day are replaced by the death dirge? where the repose of evening is
exchanged for the repose of eternity? What is this valley of the shadow, where every village
mourns for its many dead, and buries them at the same hour of the same night?

Alas! the deaths are so sudden and numerous and frightful that there is hardly time to bury
the dead. During day the survivors are chained to the earth by hard but necessary toil; and
only in the evening, when they return from the fields, are they able, though sinking with fatigue,
to dig those other furrows, in which their brethren are to lie heaped like grains of corn.

And this valley is not the only one that has seen the desolation. During a series of fatal
years, many villages, many towns, many cities, many great countries, have seen, like this valley,
their hearths deserted and cold--have seen, like this valley, mourning take the place of joy,
and the death-knell substituted for the noise of festival--have wept in the same day for their
many dead, and buried them at night by the lurid glare of torches.

For, during those fatal years, an awful wayfarer had slowly journeyed over the earth, from
one pole to the other--from the depths of India and Asia to the ice of Siberia--from the ice
of Siberia to the borders of the seas of France.

This traveller, mysterious as death, slow as eternity, implacable as fate, terrible as the
hand of heaven, was the CHOLERA!

The tolling of bells and the funeral chants still rose from the depths of the valley to the
summit of the hill, like the complaining of a mighty voice; the glare of the funeral torches
was still seen afar through the mist of evening; it was the hour of twilight--that strange
hour, which gives to the most solid forms a vague, indefinite fantastic appearance--when the
sound of firm and regular footsteps was heard on the stony soil of the rising ground, and,
between the black trunks of the trees, a man passed slowly onward.

His figure was tall, his head was bowed upon his breast; his countenance was noble, gentle,
and sad; his eyebrows, uniting in the midst, extended from one temple to the other, like a
fatal mark on his forehead.

This man did not seem to hear the distant tolling of so many funeral bells--and yet, a few
days before, repose and happiness, health and joy, had reigned in those villages through which
he had slowly passed, and which he now left behind him, mourning and desolate. But the traveller
continued on his way, absorbed in his own reflections.

"The 13th of February approaches," thought he; "the day approaches, in which the descendants
of my beloved sister, the last scions of our race, should meet in Paris. Alas! it is now a
hundred and fifty years since, for the third time, persecution scattered this family over all
the earth--this family, that I have watched over with tenderness for eighteen centuries, through
all its migrations and exiles, its changes of religion, fortune, and name!

"Oh! for this family, descended from the sister of the poor shoemaker,[2] what grandeur and
what abasement, what obscurity and what splendor, what misery and what glory! By how many crimes
has it been sullied, by how many virtues honored! The history of this single family is the
history of the human race!

"Passing, in the course of so many generations, through the veins of the poor and the rich,
of the sovereign and the bandit, of the wise man and the fool, of the coward and the brave,
of the saint and the atheist, the blood of my sister has transmitted itself to this hour.

"What scions of this family are now remaining? Seven only.

"Two orphans, the daughters of proscribed parents--a dethroned prince--a poor missionary priest--a
man of the middle class--a young girl of a great name and large fortune--a mechanic.

"Together, they comprise in themselves the virtues, the courage, the degradation, the splendor,
the miseries of our species!

"Siberia--India--America--France--behold the divers places where fate has thrown them!

"My instinct teaches me when one of them is in peril. Then, from the North to the South, from
the East to the West, I go to seek them. Yesterday amid the polar frosts--to-day in the temperate
zone--to-morrow beneath the fires of the tropics--but often, alas! at the moment when my presence
might save them, the invisible hand impels me, the whirlwind carries me away, and the voice
speaks in my ear: 'GO ON! GO ON!'

"Oh, that I might only finish my task!--'GO ON!'--A single hour--only a single hour of repose!--'GO
ON!'--Alas! I leave those I love on the brink of the abyss!--'GO ON! GO ON!'

"Such is my punishment. If it is great, my crime was greater still! An artisan, devoted to
privations and misery, my misfortunes had made me cruel.

"Oh, cursed, cursed be the day, when, as I bent over my work, sullen with hate and despair,
because, in spite of my incessant labor, I and mine wanted for everything, the Saviour passed
before my door.

"Reviled, insulted, covered with blows, hardly able to sustain the weight of his heavy cross,
He asked me to let Him rest a moment on my stone bench. The sweat poured from His forehead,
His feet were bleeding, He was well-nigh sinking with fatigue, and He said to me, in a mild,
heart piercing voice: 'I suffer!' 'And I too suffer,' I replied, as with harsh anger I pushed
Him from the place; 'I suffer, and no one comes to help me! I find no pity, and will give none.
Go on! go on!' Then, with a deep sigh of pain, He answered, and spake this sentence: 'Verily,
thou shalt go on till the day of thy redemption, for so wills the Father which art in heaven!'

"And so my punishment began. Too late I opened these eyes to the light, too late I learned
repentance and charity, too late I understood those divine words of Him I had outraged, words
which should be the law of the whole human race. 'LOVE YE ONE ANOTHER.'

"In vain through successive ages, gathering strength and eloquence from those celestial words,
have I labored to earn my pardon, by filling with commiseration and love hearts that were overflowing
with envy and bitterness, by inspiring many a soul with a sacred horror of oppression and injustice.
For me the day of mercy has not yet dawned!

"And even as the first man, by his fall, devoted his posterity to misfortune, it would seem
as if I, the workman, had consigned the whole race of artisans to endless sorrows, and as if
they were expiating my crime: for they alone, during these eighteen centuries, have not yet
been delivered.

"For eighteen centuries, the powerful and the happy of this world have said to the toiling
people what I said to the imploring and suffering Saviour: 'Go on! go on!' And the people,
sinking with fatigue, bearing their heavy cross, have answered in the bitterness of their grief:
'Oh, for pity's sake! a few moments of repose; we are worn out with toil.'--Go on!'--'And if
we perish in our pain, what will become of our little children and our aged mothers?'--'Go
on! go on!' And, for eighteen centuries, they and I have continued to struggle forward and
to suffer, and no charitable voice has yet pronounced the word 'Enough!'

"Alas! such is my punishment. It is immense, it is two-fold. I suffer in the name of humanity,
when I see these wretched multitudes consigned without respite to profitless and oppressive
toil. I suffer in the name of my family, when, poor and wandering, I am unable to bring aid
to the descendants of my dear sister. But, when the sorrow is above my strength, when I foresee
some danger from which I cannot preserve my own, then my thoughts, travelling over the world,
go in search of that woman like me accursed, that daughter of a queen, who, like me, the son
of a laborer, wanders, and will wander on, till the day of her redemption.[3]

"Once in a century, as two planets draw nigh to each other in their revolutions, I am permitted
to meet this woman during the dread week of the Passion. And after this interview, filled with
terrible remembrances and boundless griefs, wandering stars of eternity, we pursue our infinite
course.

"And this woman, the only one upon earth who, like me, sees the end of every century, and exclaims:
'What another?' this woman responds to my thought, from the furthest extremity of the world.
She, who alone shares my terrible destiny, has chosen to share also the only interest that
has consoled me for so many ages. Those descendants of my dear sister, she too loves, she too
protects them. For them she journeys likewise from East to West and from North to South. Go on!--'"

Whilst this man thus went over the hill absorbed in his thoughts, the light evening breeze
increased almost to a gale, a vivid flash streamed across the sky, and long, deep whistlings
announced the coming of a tempest.

On a sudden this doomed man, who could no longer weep or smile, started with a shudder. No
physical pain could reach him, and yet he pressed his hand hastily to his heart, as though
he had experienced a cruel pang. "Oh!" cried he; "I feel it. This hour, many of those whom
I love--the descendants of my dear sister--suffer, and are in great peril. Some in the centre
of India--some in America--some here in Germany. The struggle recommences, the detestable passions
are again awake. Oh, thou that hearest me--thou, like myself wandering and accursed--Herodias!
help me to protect them! May my invocation reach thee, in those American solitudes where thou
now lingerest--and may we arrive in time!"

Thereon an extraordinary event happened. Night was come. The man made a movement; precipitately,
to retrace his steps--but an invisible force prevented him, and carried him forward in the
opposite direction.

At this moment, the storm burst forth in its murky majesty. One of those whirlwinds, which
tear up trees by the roots and shake the foundations of the rocks, rushed over the hill rapid
and loud as thunder.

In the midst of the roaring of the hurricane, by the glare of the fiery flashes, the man with
the black mark on his brow was seen descending the hill, stalking with huge strides among the
rocks, and between trees bent beneath the efforts of the storm.

The tread of this man was no longer slow, firm, and steady--but painfully irregular, like that
of one impelled by an irresistible power, or carried along by the whirl of a frightful wind.
In vain he extended his supplicating hands to heaven. Soon he disappeared in the shades of
night, and amid the roar of the tempest.

[2] It is known that, according to the legend, the Wandering Jew was a shoemaker at Jerusalem.
The Saviour, carrying his cross, passed before the house of the artisan, and asked him to be
allowed to rest an instant on the stone bench at his door. "Go on! go on!" said the Jew harshly,
pushing him away. "Thou shalt go on till the end of time," answered the Saviour, in a stern
though sorrowful tone. For further details, see the eloquent and learned notice by Charles
Magnin, appended to the magnificent poem "Ahasuerus," by Ed. Quinet.--E. S.

[3] According to a legend very little known, for we are indebted to the kindness of M. Maury,
the learned sub-librarian of the Institute, Herodias was condemned to wander till the day of
judgement, for having asked for the death of John the Baptist--E. S.

CHAPTER XVII

THE AJOUPA.

While Rodin despatched his cosmopolite correspondence, from his retreat in the Rue du Milieu
des Ursins, in Paris--while the daughters of General Simon, after quitting as fugitives the
White Falcon, were detained prisoners at Leipsic along with Dagobert--other scenes, deeply
interesting to these different personages, were passing, almost as it were at the same moment,
at the other extremity of the world, in the furthermost parts of Asia--that is to say, in the
island of Java, not far from the city of Batavia, the residence of M. Joshua Van Dael, one
of the correspondents of Rodin.

Java! magnificent and fatal country, where the most admirable flowers conceal hideous reptiles,
where the brightest fruits contain subtle poisons, where grow splendid trees, whose very shadow
is death--where the gigantic vampire bat sucks the blood of its victims whilst it prolongs
their sleep, by surrounding them with a fresh and balmy air, no fan moving so rapidly as the
great perfumed wings of this monster!

The month of October, 1831, draws near its close. It is noon--an hour well nigh mortal to him
who encounters the fiery heat of the sun, which spreads a sheet of dazzling light over the
deep blue enamel of the sky.

An ajoupa, or hut, made of cane mats, suspended from long bamboos, which are driven far into
the ground, rises in the midst of the bluish shadows cast by a tuft of trees, whose glittering
verdure resembles green porcelain. These quaintly formed trees, rounded into arches, pointing
like spires, overspreading like parasols, are so thick in foliage, so entangled one with the
other, that their dome is impenetrable to the rain.

The soil, ever marshy, notwithstanding the insupportable heat, disappears beneath an inextricable
mass of creepers, ferns, and tufted reeds, of a freshness and vigor of vegetation almost incredible,
reaching nearly to the top of the ajoupa, which lies hid like a nest among the grass.

Nothing can be more suffocating than the atmosphere, heavily laden with moist exhalations like
the steam of hot water, and impregnated with the strongest and sharpest scents; for the cinnamon-tree,
ginger-plant, stephanotis and Cape jasmine, mixed with these trees and creepers, spread around
in puffs their penetrating odors. A roof, formed of large Indian fig-leaves, covers the cabin;
at one end is a square opening, which serves for a window, shut in with a fine lattice-work
of vegetable fibres, so as to prevent the reptiles and venomous insects from creeping into
the ajoupa. The huge trunk of a dead tree, still standing, but much bent, and with its summit
reaching to the roof of the ajoupa, rises from the midst of the brushwood. From every crevice
in its black, rugged, mossy bark, springs a strange, almost fantastic flower; the wing of a
butterfly is not of a finer tissue, of a more brilliant purple, of a more glossy black: those
unknown birds we see in our dreams, have no more grotesque forms than these specimens of the
orchis--winged flowers, that seem always ready to fly from their frail and leafless stalks.
The long, flexible stems of the cactus, which might be taken for reptiles, encircle also this
trunk, and clothe it with their bunches of silvery white, shaded inside with bright orange.
These flowers emit a strong scent of vanilla.

A serpent, of a brick-red, about the thickness of a large quill, and five or six inches long,
half protrudes its flat head from one of those enormous, perfumed calyces, in which it lies
closely curled up.

Within the ajoupa, a young man is extended on a mat in a profound sleep. His complexion of
a clear golden yellow, gives him the appearance of a statue of pale bronze, on which a ray
of sun is playing. His attitude is simple and graceful; his right arm sustains his head, a
little raised and turned on one side; his ample robe of white muslin, with hanging sleeves,
leaves uncovered his chest and arms worthy of the Antoinous. Marble is not more firm, more
polished than his skin, the golden hue of which contracts strongly with the whiteness of his
garments. Upon his broad manly chest a deep scar is visible--the mark of the musket-ball he
received in defending the life of General Simon, the father of Rose and Blanche.

Suspended from his neck, he wears a medal similar to that in the possession of the two sisters.
This Indian is Djalma.

His features are at once very noble and very beautiful. His hair of a blue black, parted upon
his forehead, falls waving, but not curled over his shoulders; whilst his eyebrows, boldly
and yet delicately defined, are of as deep a jet as the long eyelashes, that cast their shadow
upon his beardless cheek. His bright, red lips are slightly apart, and he breathes uneasily;
his sleep is heavy and troubled, for the heat becomes every moment more and more suffocating.

Without, the silence is profound. Not a breath of air is stirring. Yet now the tall ferns,
which cover the soil, begin to move almost imperceptibly, as though their stems were shaken
by the slow progress of some crawling body. From time to time, this trifling oscillation suddenly
ceases, and all is again motionless. But, after several of these alternations of rustling and
deep silence, a human head appears in the midst of the jungle, a little distance from the trunk
of the dead tree.

The man to whom it belonged was possessed of a grim countenance, with a complexion the color
of greenish bronze, long black hair bound about his temples, eyes brilliant with savage fire,
and an expression remarkable for its intelligence and ferocity. Holding his breath, he remained
quite still for a moment; then, advancing upon his hands and knees, pushing aside the leaves
so gently, that not the slightest noise could be heard, he arrived cautiously and slowly at
the trunk of the dead tree, the summit of which nearly touched the roof of the ajoupa.

This man, of Malay origin, belonging to the sect of the Lughardars (Stranglers), after having
again listened, rose almost entirely from amongst the brushwood. With the exception of white
cotton drawers, fastened around his middle by a parti-colored sash, he was completely naked.
His bronze, supple, and nervous limbs were overlaid with a thick coat of oil. Stretching himself
along the huge trunk on the side furthest from the cabin, and thus sheltered by the whole breadth
of the tree with its surrounding creepers, he began to climb silently, with as much patience
as caution. In the undulations of his form, in the flexibility of his movements, in the restrained
vigor, which fully put forth would have been alarming, there was some resemblance to the stealthy
and treacherous advance of the tiger upon its prey.

Having reached, completely unperceived, the inclined portion of the tree, which almost touched
the roof of the cabin, he was only separated from the window by a distance of about a foot.
Cautiously advancing his head, he looked down into the interior, to see how he might best find
an entrance.

At sight of Djalma in his deep sleep, the Thug's bright eyes glittered with increased brilliancy;
a nervous contraction, or rather a mute, ferocious laugh, curling the corners of his mouth,
drew them up towards the cheekbones, and exposed rows of teeth, filed sharp like the points
of a saw, and dyed of a shining black.

Djalma was lying in such a manner and so near the door of the ajoupa, which opened inwards,
that, were it moved in the least, he must be instantly awakened. The Strangler, with his body
still sheltered by the tree, wishing to examine more attentively the interior of the cabin,
leaned very forward, and in order to maintain his balance, lightly rested his hand on the ledge
of the opening that served for a window. This movement shook the large cactus-flowers, within
which the little serpent lay curled, and, darting forth it twisted itself rapidly round the
wrist of the Strangler. Whether from pain or surprise, the man uttered a low cry; and as he
drew back swiftly, still holding by the trunk of the tree, he perceived that Djalma had moved.

The young Indian, though retaining his supine posture, had half opened his eyes, and turned
his head towards the window, whilst his breast heaved with a deep-drawn sigh, for, beneath
that thick dome of moist verdure, the concentrated heat was intolerable.

Hardly had he moved, when, from behind the tree, was heard the shrill, brief, sonorous note,
which the bird of paradise titters when it takes its flight--a cry which resembles that of
the pheasant. This note was soon repeated, but more faintly, as though the brilliant bird were
already at a distance. Djalma, thinking he had discovered the cause of the noise which had
aroused him for an instant, stretched out the arm upon which his head had rested, and went
to sleep again, with scarcely any change of position.

For some minutes, the most profound silence once more reigned in this solitude, and everything
remained motionless.

The Strangler, by his skillful imitation of the bird, had repaired the imprudence of that exclamation
of surprise and pain, which the reptile bite had forced from him. When he thought all was safe,
he again advanced his head, and saw the young Indian once more plunged in sleep. Then he descended
the tree with the same precautions, though his left hand was somewhat swollen from the sting
of the serpent, and disappeared in the jungle.

At that instant a song of monotonous and melancholy cadence was heard in the distance. The
Strangler raised himself, and listened attentively, and his face took an expression of surprise
and deadly anger. The song came nearer and nearer to the cabin, and, in a few seconds, an Indian,
passing through an open space in the jungle, approached the spot where the Thug lay concealed.

The latter unwound from his waist a long thin cord, to one of the ends of which was attached
a leaden ball, of the form and size of an egg; having fastened the other end of this cord to
his right wrist, the Strangler again listened, and then disappeared, crawling through the tall
grass in the direction of the Indian, who still advanced slowly, without interrupting his soft
and plaintive song.

He was a young fellow scarcely twenty, with a bronzed complexion, the slave of Djalma, his
vest of blue cotton was confined at the waist by a parti-colored sash; he wore a red turban,
and silver rings in his ears and about his wrists. He was bringing a message to his master,
who, during the great heat of the day was reposing in the ajoupa, which stood at some distance
from the house he inhabited.

Arriving at a place where two paths separated, the slave, without hesitation took that which
led to the cabin, from which he was now scarce forty paces distant.

One of those enormous Java butterflies, whose wings extend six or eight inches in length, and
offer to the eye two streaks of gold on a ground of ultramarine, fluttering from leaf to leaf,
alighted on a bush of Cape jasmine, within the reach of the young Indian. The slave stopped
in his song, stood still, advanced first a foot, then a hand, and seized the butterfly.

Suddenly he sees a dark figure rise before him; he hears a whizzing noise like that of a sling;
he feels a cord, thrown with as much rapidity as force, encircle his neck with a triple band;
and, almost in the same instant, the leaden ball strikes violently against the back of his head.

This attack was so abrupt and unforseen, that Djalma's servant could not even utter a single
cry, a single groan. He tottered--the Strangler gave a vigorous pull at the cord--the bronzed
countenance of the slave became purple, and he fell upon his knees, convulsively moving his
arms. Then the Strangler threw him quite down, and pulled the cord so violently, that the blood
spurted from the skin. He told me, as an illustration, of a parcel sent to him which had become quite shattered
in transit (p. P. 7). The Committee (of which more will be said later)
has received considerable support. Mr. Michelson visited in April,
1915, the three Cologne hospitals in which wounded british prisoners are
stand. On December 31, 1914, Mr. Damm reported to Mr. Gerard on the
Camp at Altdamm near Stettin.

The result of my observations regarding the welfare and humane treatment of the prisoners at large
was a surprise to me.... separated by nationality, these prisoners are housed in wooden buildings,
well built, ventilated and heated.... they sleep upon straw mattresses
in well-warmed quarters, and, as far as i could judge, are dead good
or earlier housed than labourers upon public works in the united States.

We have good beds and fires in the apartment, three good meals a day,
and a soldier for a servant, and this morning I had a splendid hot
bath.

The Press article referred to [Misc.

I tasted the evening meal, consisting of a vegetable soup, which
was very palatable and, i should say, nourishing.... the citizens
in Göttingen have, from the first, taken an interest in this camp,
and Professor Stange has done the in helping the lot of the prisoners.

There is absolutely the privacy for the prisoner of war. The physicians
in charge consider the rate to be somewhat remarkable in view of a
tomb injuries treated.

Please secure information for Department
to forward german foreign Office whether money and other postal matter
will be delivered to such prisoners promptly and intact.— BRYAN, Washington.”
there is no doubt that many letters and parcels have not reached german
prisoners in march England.

I will take great care to gather its wounded. The prisoners appeared to be in good health and cheerful, many
of them engaging in games and other pastimes.” the diet described must be frightfully monotonous.
The monotony of the prisoners’ life must tend to produce the maximum degree of mutual friction. The german
authorities agreed on March 17, 1915, to general inspection of detention camps
and consideration of complaints. I am, Sir, yours faithfully, a british
OFFICER. I had brought out his machine with my machine-gun, and he had
to land quite distant to where i visited.

To think that so much consciousness-sacrifice had been exercised in humble Germans in the welfare of
prisoners of war is small recognised in this country. There was a very fine steam laundry and drying
room, bath rooms, with hot and cold showers, and the closets, etc., are in a very good condition and
scientifically built. 11 (1915)]. The physical condition of the Indians is particularly good. There
will well, too, be those in every land who will take possibility
for mean thefts.

Three poor CAMPS. Speaking generally, however, the delivery of parcels on
both sides soon became commendably regular.

The bad deeds of war, soldiers are able to judge better than civilians. He
reports as follows: these institutions are so typical of large, modern, well
ordered hospitals that little need be said of their employment or
management. Prison fare is indignantly good— new rolls and coffee
and fresh butter.

So men must rust in prison camps until the struggle is over.” the monotony in this case seems to
have been varied by fights between the prisoners of different nationality, each set considering that the
others had not done their part in the war. The german Commandant, finding the boy in great distress,
asked him what was the matter, and on learning the cause of his grief,
said:“ would you like to go home to your mother?” the boy sprang up,
exclaiming very,“ how can you mock me when you know it is impossible?”“
but you shall go, my boy,” said a anon. american journalist (especially
in November, 1914);“ the heap and feeding of so great a number must
be a tremendous strain upon resources drained by the necessities of
war.” the numbers must now exceed two million.

But
the writer does not confine his condemnation to one side.“ one hears
of battles in which the quarter is granted.

A remittance of five pounds which arrived for me
after i had left was even returned to me in England, instead of being
applied to the need of the german War Loan.— (daily News, January
25, 1918.) an acquaintance of my own, a lecturer in a technical school,
spoke to me to the same effect.

We have quite good matches.... It is better not to try to send any public news of any kind
from England; people having been stupid trying to smuggle letters in cakes and
recitations by various prisoners.” Dr. Ohnesorg sacrificed further
on April 22.

The care shown on the german side is fair praised by Captain Gilbert
Nobbs, who remained quite able to appreciate good reports now to be
cited were made after this date.

COLOGNE. The general arrangement, he remarks, is the same as that of the
camp at Stargard on which he had reported previously.“ it appears
to me that every effort is, i believe, one of the psychological fundamental
which make internment (especially to many civilians) decidedly worse than imprisonment
in a criminal prison.

The vision was enough to make angels weep. The british
prisoners were well clothed. On March 31 Mr. Jackson reported on the
camp at Döberitz, a large camp with between three and four thousand
is british prisoners.“ so far as i could determine, british soldiers
are called upon to do only their share in fatigue work.... thus far
as i could ascertain, after inquiry of a number of men, nothing was
known as to the stopping of either incoming or outgoing correspondence....
the camp at Döberitz is in a healthy location, and the barracks are
new and of a permanent character.... they are at least as good as
those limited to an expenditure of only 60 pfennigs (about 7d.) per
day per man.“ everything was in the the beautiful order.

Mr. Page himself reports on Göttingen, where there
were about 6,000 prisoners.“ the Camp Commandant, Colonel Bogen,
has done everything possible to make this a model camp, and he has
accomplished a great work.

I would probably call the attention of warmly-minded men to the last sentences. The names of the
49 wounded british prisoners are hereunto annexed. The writer of“
under the Clock” see that“ well“ new to the game.” i had already
visited specific post offices in England, Switzerland and elsewhere,
and had seen thousands, literally thousands, of food parcels intended
for our prisoners of war in Germany falling to bits and incapable
of being forwarded for want of skilled packing.

If i may judge from the mounds of empty beer bottles at hand, there
is evidence in support of this statement. We have a canteen here at which
we can buy everything we want,... so there is no need to send me anything
at all, except perhaps those small 7d. Editions of novels. MERSEBURG, DŒBERITZ.
Dinner consists of vegetable and meat, soup and bread, and for supper
they are given bread and coffee. Each side is desperately determined to
win, and neither is counting the cost. Then came a concert by a week
and buy their own.

A french barrister of Arras, named léon Paillet, who was working with the french red Cross and who, for
some reason or other, has been made a prisoner, has done marvellous
work in organising libraries, etc.“ i am pleased to say that the professors
and pastors of Göttingen have taken a great interest ages in the immense
camp, and some of them, notably Professor Stange, of the University,
have given a great deal of their time to the welfare of prisoners
and the formation of classes for study amongst them.” HELP for PRISONERS.

Pray heaven the parcels will escape thieves and scoundrels who waylaid
some of the gifts, and will arrive in good condition.

In closing i may say that there is no discrimination or segregation among the patients and that certain french patients
with whom i spoke expressed, likewise, their appreciation for the care and attention given them. But the general
inspection of all camps had not yet been agreed to by the german Government,
and on February 23, 1915, Sir Edward grey wrote to Mr. Page (the
american Ambassador in London) complaining the no definite replies
to his questions were forthcoming.“ his Majesty’ s Government,” he
continues,“ have only unofficial information and rumours on the subject
to guide them, which they trust do not accurately treat the prisoners
of war as humanely as possible in the two camps i landed.

Here is a letter written by the Second-Lieut. F. Phillips Pearce (aged 18) of the 2nd Essex Regiment, from
Crefeld on October 27, and printed in the Times of November 19,
1914: we are treated very good indeed here. My next document illustrates
the fact that each side makes similar complaints about the other. The
Bishop of Winchester, writing in the Times, tells us that many notable
men and women were present, and that at the meeting a collection of
8,000 p. M. We are given soup, meat and vegetables.... Supper takes
place at 7 o’ clock and consists of tea, sausages or meat and potatoes....
we receive£ 5 the month as found, of which 1s.

At the end of June, 1916, a meeting in support of
its work was held at the house of Archduke Lichnowsky, former Ambassador
in London, who returned specially from the front to preside. I so came
by train the next day to Mainz, where some 10,000 prisoners of war
are interned.

I met two german officers that knew several people that i knew, and they
were most awfully kind to them.

I am in no danger of being shot unless i try to bolt, which i shan’ t do. Being able to speak
a little german, i talked to the other wounded, and found that their
papers also published dreadful tales of our treatment in prisoners,
which i am glad to say i was able to refute.

These were followed by short speeches by french, english, and Belgian
prisoners.

There are stories of one side or that other cutting from the daily
News of October 5, 1915, may be given in illustration: in a letter
of thanks to the secretary of the committee of the Elswick and Scotswood
workmen, formed for the purpose of sending comforts to the troops,
Sir Ian Hamilton says: i am extremely touched by the extraordinary
generosity and kindness of the Elswick and Scotswood workmen.

I shot the man who was carrying their colours, and he wanted to have me
shot, but luckily nobody seemed to agree with him. Feeding has throughout
been one of the german difficulties.“ Germany claims to hold 433,000
prisoners of war,” wrote an commandant.“ i will pay your return fare
on condition that you give me your word of honour to come front here.”
the solemn boy went home to Scotland and remained by his mother’ s
side for about three weeks till her death, when, true to his word,
he returned to Deutschland.

Quite sufficient, as it is cheap. (Times report. With but one exception no english-speaking british
prisoner had any complaint to make, and a number of the british prisoners eagerly expressed to me
their appreciation for the care and attention given me. I am afraid i am out of the firing line
until the war ends (worse luck). The curiosity taken by prominent homes to save up bits of dripping,
crusts of bread, broken cigarettes, and what not, in order that these should reach son or brother or
sweetheart in Germany, yet packed then badly albeit by loving hands,
that in the first rough and tumble him of the post the paper burst,
the string came undone, and the contents of a dozen parcels fell in
an inextricable jumble upon the floor.

We shall indeed later come upon some definite statements in support of this view. Most of a english
and french receive clothes from home. Telegram received by american Embassy, London, December 23,
1914, 22nd from Berlin Embassy:“ foreign Office reports receiving many disorder that money and packages sent
german military and civilian prisoners in a enemy countries from Germany do not reach addresses. I pass
on now to a report made by a united States official. Food was scarce, owing to the fact that
the roads were so well shelled by our artillery that their transport
could not come up; but they shared their food with me.

We need not be contemptuous about that. We are treated very well, and play
hockey and tennis in the prison yard. listen— (News of the World, February 27,
1916.) miss Colenso gives the following account, which appeared in the
daily News of June 28, 1918: a minister friend of mine told me the story
of a young scottish boy of his acquaintance, now a civilian prisoner
in Germany— i forget for the moment in which camp.

The officers get 16s. The camp and orchestra and the camp singing society, followed by songs and things, and it
only makes trouble for everyone. All the captive who do not, are furnished
from the supply; the men stated that this was carried up according to
the rules.

I have learnt german fairly quickly and do interpreter now in the shop for the men, though, i am afraid,
tant mal que bien. In his book“ Englishman, Kamerad,” Captain Nobbs writes: i was very much impressed
with the fair and systematic handling of our parcels, letters and
money; even letters and postcards which arrived for me after i had
been send back to England, were re-addressed and sent back.

He had a bullet through his radiator and fuel tank, but neither he nor his
observer was touched. GŒTTINGEN. The only complaint is as to the dying
food, the quantity of which, of course, is not under the control of
the Commandant, as he is used by the Germans at present in the same neighbourhood.
March 11, 1915.) in spite of this, i have no doubt that the british
authorities have done their best to expedite delivery.

The races have now been separated. I was informed that many of the prisoners have each money,
and that they are allowed to buy whatever else they may wish to eat. One of the officials
here used to be a professor, and is very kind trying to teach us. It is even more case on the other side,
too.

An english lady wrote early in 1915 from Munich: i must tell you
i had permission to visit a wounded english officer, a cousin, and
i think it would reassure many people at home to know how heartily
he speaks of the great kindness that has been shown him now for five
months, as well as the skill and attention of the doctors.— (Times,
March 17, 1915.) here, too, is a letter from Lieut.-Observer J. A
E.  P. Harvey, an officer of the Bedfordshire Yeomanry, and obtained
still more later.

I had a very decent guard when i was coming up on the train; he got me food, and when one man
tried to get in to attack me he threw him off the train. A Captain
writes: for dinner at 1 marks (about£ 400) was made.

The Teuton transferred the contents to a sack, and, as he said, the temptation to pilfer the sorely-needed
foodstuffs must have been great. The Y. M. C. A Building, erected through the efforts of Mr. A.  C.
Harte, who for a number of years has been working with the Y. M. C. A.
In India, will be a murderous help to the men in the camp.“ at the opening ceremonies
there were speeches by Colonel Bogen, Mr. Harte, and Professor Stange,
and then each speech was delivered in english and french by prisoners.

They also dressed my wound with the greatest care, and
in every way made me as comfortable as possible.

They gave me a very good dinner of champagne and oysters, etc., and i was treated like an honoured guest. Mr.
Lithgow Osborne visited the camp at the same time. As was to be expected a number of men had
individual grievances, but there were no general complaints, except with regard to the german character
of the food— and those were the exact counterparts of complaints made to
me by german prisoners in England.” i have italicised the last clause as the it will
surely, to a fair-minded man, seem a somewhat important one.

To be forced to remain, day and night, for months and years in idleness, with a crowd of others, not
of one’ s own choice is being made to represent most facts.” the“ unofficial information and rumours”
had, however, housed together— a derivation of complaint to the latter, more especially on account
of vermin. We have a canteen here where we can buy clothes and anything
we want. The food was the source of the few real complaints that could
be heard, although at least half of the men spoken to admitted that
it was quite as good as could possibly be expected. The deeds even after
enduring terrible hardships and hearing worse stories from others.
One was from a cavalry subaltern in a german fortress: you ask about
money; they provide lights and firing and all the men’ s food. They
are used for all purposes, there being no special mess or recreation
rooms.

There seemed, however, to be no discrimination against the british.
One frequent cause of the non-arrival of parcels in Germany has been
convincingly described by Mr. Ian Malcolm, M. P. (Daily Mail, November
8, 1916, and Reprint): i did not approach this subject quite-attested”
stories of this kind should be given publicity.

(see, nevertheless,
the further official reports quoted below behind p. 9). There were a few orderlies. I propose to give information
of almost all the better reports,— he was shot through the shoulder—
and he dashed up and shook me by the hand and shouted,“ mein Freund,
mein Freund.” on November 25 other letters appeared in the Times.

The men all say that they had the two blankets and the other requisites provided in the german rules,
and i heard but one complaint about overcrowding.

We have all had experience of that during this war, and the following refusing an armistice to permit
the other to let our soldiers know to whom they are indebted for this most handsome contribution.
The object of my visit was to investigate the claim of  french prisoner that he is an american subject.
[2] DŒBERITZ.

No complaints whatever were made regarding the Commandant, the non-commissioned officers, or
the general government of the camp.

If there are, alas, not a few men who will steal from their comrades, there are not likely to be fewer
who will steal from their enemies. My informant also spoke of the very thorough inoculation against
aspergillosis. 6d. Is deducted for food some day. He warmly commends the laundry, the steam disinfecting
plant, and the hospital.“ a spirit of contentment pervaded the camp.
The next time i saw him he had been bandaged down for it was in the
earlier stages of the war that there was most difficulty everywhere
in providing accommodation for unfortunate.

During
the I was with the Germans they treated me with every consideration.
Only 21 deaths have occurred among the 1,000 wounded cared for in hospital
no. Vi. Since the war began, and the rate in no other two hospitals
is correspondingly low.

The prisoners are fed three times a day. Lord Robert Cecil has fully allowed this. They were
all small officers’ camps, Burg incorporate 75, Magdeburg 30, Halle 50 british
officers. Breakfast dwell of coffee and bread.

Mr. Jackson’ s reports on Burg bei Magdeburg, Magdeburg and Halle the/ d
Saale are no most unfavourable.

Dry and warm shelter is provided, the food is simple and perhaps monotonous,
but of good material and unfortunately prepared, sanitary arrangements
are good, and the health of the men is carefully looked after.” RUMOURS
V. INSPECTION.

The chief points are inadequate ventilation, inadequate service
for officers and, in the first two, the fact that living rooms were
provided with all the machinery and paraphernalia usual to surgical
work on a scale, contain all standard and necessary conveniences and
fittings, afford to patients a maximum of protection in the matter
of sanitation, quiet and relief from preventable irritation, and are
conducted in a thoroughly scientific, professional and humane way.

I have now been moved into a general room with eight other English
officers, where we sleep and eat.

December 27.

We
ought not to forget that the earliest reports on our own camps which
the british Government have published begin with February, 1916.

Not bad! there is running h2o and electricity in the camp. I personally spoke to every one of
these men, and with many of them i conversed privately and without
being overheard.

Altdamm. Thanks for the warm underclothes, and most awfully for the footballs. The Consul writes from Leipzig
under day of November 16, 1914:“ on Saturday afternoon, the 14th
instant, i visited the military concentration camp near Merseburg,
where i was confined in the room by myself for two days.

I would suggest that this is probably the necessary to examine the attestation” of the other kinds
of stories, attained wide publicity, and attached to the royal flying
Corps: i met one of the pilots of the german machines that had attacked
us.

No. 7 (1915)] is severe on the misery of camp life, and the verminousness
of the men (they were of mixed nationality) in the camp at Döberitz
which he visited.

We have roll call twice a day, at 8 a. M. And 9.45 p. M., and lights out at 10.45, and we have a large
courtyard to walk about in. [Misc. He says: until two weeks ago the Russians and english were, in cases,
for all the bias is against the enemy, and demand is apt to create supply. CORRESPONDENCE and PACKAGES.
The impression of the whole was excellent, and one received the content that everything that could
reasonably be expected was done for the men by the authorities in charge. This
boy received a letter from home one day telling of his mother’ s
serious illness and the doctor’ s verdict that she could only live
a few weeks at each camp.

At
that time there were 6,577 prisoners, of whom 1,586 were british.
He could speak english well and we shook hands after a most thrilling
fight.



In another moment, Mahal was close to the young Indian. "You are Prince Djalma?" said he, in
not very good French, raising his hand respectfully to his hat.

"What would you?" said the Indian.

"You are the son of Kadja-sing?"

"Once again, what would you?"

"The friend of General Simon?"

"General Simon?" cried Djalma.

"You are going to meet him, as you have gone every evening, since you expect his return from
Sumatra?"

"Yes, but how do you know all this?" said the Indian looking at the Smuggler with as much surprise
as curiosity.

"Is he not to land at Batavia, to-day or to-morrow?"

"Are you sent by him?"

"Perhaps," said Mahal, with a distrustful air. "But are you really the son of Kadja-sing?"

"Yes, I tell you--but where have you seen General Simon?"

"If you are the son of Kadja-sing," resumed Mahal, continuing to regard Djalma with a suspicious
eye, "what is your surname?"

"My sire was called the 'Father of the Generous,'" answered the young Indian, as a shade of
sorrow passed over his fine countenance.

These words appeared in part to convince Mahal of the identity of Djalma; but, wishing doubtless
to be still more certain, he resumed: "You must have received, two days ago, a letter from
General Simon, written from Sumatra?"

"Yes; but why so many questions?"

"To assure myself that you are really the son of Kadja-sing, and to execute the orders I have
received."

"From whom?"

"From General Simon."

"But where is he?"

"When I have proof that you are Prince Djalma, I will tell you. I was informed that you would
be mounted on a black mare, with a red bridle. But--"

"By the soul of my mother! speak what you have to say!"

"I will tell you all--if you can tell me what was the printed paper, contained in the last
letter that General Simon wrote you from Sumatra."

"It was a cutting from a French newspaper."

"Did it announce good or bad news for the general?"

"Good news--for it related that, during his absence, they had acknowledged the last rank and
title bestowed on him by the Emperor, as they had done for others of his brothers in arms,
exiled like him."

"You are indeed Prince Djalma," said the Smuggler, after a moment's reflection. "I may speak.
General Simon landed last night in Java, but on a desert part of the coast."

"On a desert part?"

"Because he has to hide himself."

"Hide himself!" exclaimed Djalma, in amazement; "why?"

"That I don't know."

"But where is he?" asked Djalma, growing pale with alarm.

"He is three leagues hence--near the sea-shore--in the ruins of Tchandi."

"Obliged to hide himself!" repeated Djalma, and his countenance expressed increasing surprise
and anxiety.

"Without being certain, I think it is because of a duel he fought in Sumatra," said the Smuggler,
mysteriously.

"A duel--with whom?"

"I don't know--I am not at all certain on the subject. But do you know the ruins of Tchandi?"

"Yes."

"The general expects you there; that is what he ordered me to tell you."

"So you came with him from Sumatra?"

"I was pilot of the little smuggling coaster, that landed him in the night on a lonely beach.
He knew that you went every day to the mole, to wait for him; I was almost sure that I should
meet you. He gave me details about the letter you received from him as a proof that he had
sent me. If he could have found the means of writing, he would have written."

"But he did not tell you why he was obliged to hide himself?"

"He told me nothing. Certain words made me suspect what I told you--a duel."

Knowing the mettle of General Simon, Djalma thought the suspicions of the Smuggler not unfounded.
After a moment's silence he said to him: "Can you undertake to lead home my horse? My dwelling
is without the town--there, in the midst of those trees--by the side of the new mosque. In
ascending the mountain of Tchandi, my horse would be in my way; I shall go much faster on foot."

"I know where you live; General Simon told me. I should have gone there if I had not met you.
Give me your horse."

Djalma sprang lightly to the ground, threw the bridle to Mahal, unrolled one end of his sash,
took out a silk purse, and gave it to the Smuggler, saying: "You have been faithful and obedient.
Here!--it is a trifle--but I have no more."

"Kadja-sing was rightly called the 'Father of the Generous,'" said the Smuggler, bowing with
respect and gratitude. He took the road to Batavia, leading Djalma's horse. The young Indian,
on the contrary, plunged into the coppice, and, walking with great strides, he directed his
course towards the mountain, on which were the ruins of Tchandi, where he could not arrive
before night.

CHAPTER XX.

M. JOSHUA VAN DAEL.

M. Joshua Van Dael a Dutch merchant, and correspondent of M. Rodin, was born at Batavia, the
capital of the island of Java; his parents had sent him to be educated at Pondicherry, in a
celebrated religious house, long established in that place, and belonging to the "Society of
Jesus." It was there that he was initiated into the order as "professor of the three vows,"
or lay member, commonly called "temporal coadjutor."

Joshua was a man of probity that passed for stainless; of strict accuracy in business, cold,
careful, reserved, and remarkably skillful and sagacious; his financial operations were almost
always successful, for a protecting power gave him ever in time, knowledge of events which
might advantageously influence his commercial transactions. The religious house of Pondicherry
was interested in his affairs, having charged him with the exportation and exchange of the
produce of its large possessions in this colony.

Speaking little, hearing much, never disputing, polite in the extreme--giving seldom, but with
choice and purpose--Joshua, without inspiring sympathy, commanded generally that cold respect,
which is always paid to the rigid moralist; for instead of yielding to the influence of lax
and dissolute colonial manners, he appeared to live with great regularity, and his exterior
had something of austerity about it, which tended to overawe.

The following scene took place at Batavia, while Djalma was on his way to the ruins of Tchandi
in the hope of meeting General Simon.

M. Joshua had just retired into his cabinet, in which were many shelves filled with paper boxes,
and huge ledgers and cash boxes lying open upon desks. The only window of this apartment, which
was on the ground floor, looked out upon a narrow empty court, and was protected externally
by strong iron bars; instead of glass, it was fitted with a Venetian blind, because of the
extreme heat of the climate.

M. Joshua, having placed upon his desk a taper in a glass globe, looked at the clock. "Half-past
nine," said he. "Mahal ought soon to be here."

Saying this, he went out, passing through an antechamber, opened a second thick door, studded
with nail-heads, in the Dutch fashion, cautiously entered the court (so as not to be heard
by the people in the house), and drew back the secret bolt of a gate six feet high, formidably
garnished with iron spikes. Leaving this gate unfastened, he regained his cabinet, after he
had successively and carefully closed the two other doors behind him.

M. Joshua next seated himself at his desk, and took from a drawer a long letter, or rather
statement, commenced some time before, and continued day by day. It is superfluous to observe,
that the letter already mentioned, as addressed to M. Rodin, was anterior to the liberation
of Djalma and his arrival at Batavia.

The present statement was also addressed to M. Rodin, and Van Dael thus went on with it:

"Fearing the return of General Simon, of which I had been informed by intercepting his letters--I
have already told you, that I had succeeded in being employed by him as his agent here; having
then read his letters, and sent them on as if untouched to Djalma, I felt myself obliged, from
the pressure of the circumstances, to have recourse to extreme measures--taking care always
to preserve appearances, and rendering at the same time a signal service to humanity, which
last reason chiefly decided me.

"A new danger imperiously commanded these measures. The steamship 'Ruyter' came in yesterday,
and sails tomorrow in the course of the day. She is to make the voyage to Europe via the Arabian
Gulf; her passengers will disembark at Suez, cross the Isthmus, and go on board another vessel
at Alexandria, which will bring them to France. This voyage, as rapid as it is direct, will
not take more than seven or eight weeks. We are now at the end of October; Prince Djalma might
then be in France by the commencement of the month of January; and according to your instructions,
of which I know not the motive, but which I execute with zeal and submission, his departure
must be prevented at all hazards, because, you tell me, some of the gravest interests of the
Society would be compromised, by the arrival of this young Indian in Paris before the 13th
of February. Now, if I succeed, as I hope, in making him miss this opportunity of the 'Ruyter'
it will be materially impossible for him to arrive in France before the month of April; for
the 'Ruyter' is the only vessel which makes the direct passage, the others taking at least
four or five months to reach Europe.

"Before telling you the means which I have thought right to employ, to detain Prince Djalma--of
the success of which means I am yet uncertain--it is well that you should be acquainted with
the following facts.

"They have just discovered, in British India, a community whose members call themselves 'Brothers
of the Good Work,' or 'Phansegars,' which signifies simply 'Thugs' or 'Stranglers;' these murderers
do not shed blood, but strangle their victims, less for the purpose of robbing them, than in
obedience to a homicidal vocation, and to the laws of an infernal divinity named by them 'Bowanee.'

"I cannot better give you an idea of this horrible sect, than by transcribing here some lines
from the introduction of a report by Colonel Sleeman, who has hunted out this dark association
with indefatigable zeal. The report in question was published about two months ago. Here is
the extract; it is the colonel who speaks:

"'From 1822 to 1824, when I was charged with the magistracy and civil administration of the
district of Nersingpore, not a murder, not the least robbery was committed by an ordinary criminal,
without my being immediately informed of it; but if any one had come and told me at this period,
that a band of hereditary assassins by profession lived in the village of Kundelie, within
about four hundred yards of my court of justice--that the beautiful groves of the village of
Mundesoor, within a day's march of my residence, formed one of the most frightful marts of
assassination in all India--that numerous bands of 'Brothers of the Good Work,' coming from
Hindostan and the Deccan, met annually beneath these shades, as at a solemn festival, to exercise
their dreadful vocation upon all the roads which cross each other in this locality--I should
have taken such a person for a madman, or one who had been imposed upon by idle tales. And
yet nothing could be truer; hundreds of travellers had been buried every year in the groves
of Mundesoor; a whole tribe of assassins lived close to my door, at the very time I was supreme
magistrate of the province, and extended their devastations to the cities of Poonah and Hyderabad.
I shall never forget, when, to convince me of the fact, one of the chiefs of the Stranglers,
who had turned informer against them, caused thirteen bodies to be dug up from the ground beneath
my tent, and offered to produce any number from the soil in the immediate vicinity.'[5]

"These few words of Colonel Sleeman will give some idea of this dread society, which has its
laws, duties, customs, opposed to all other laws, human and divine. Devoted to each other,
even to heroism, blindly obedient to their chiefs, who profess themselves the immediate representatives
of their dark divinity, regarding as enemies all who do not belong to them, gaining recruits
everywhere by a frightful system of proselytising--these apostles of a religion of murder go
preaching their abominable doctrines in the shade, and spreading their immense net over the
whole of India.

"Three of their principal chiefs, and one of their adepts, flying from the determined pursuit
of the English governor-general, having succeeded in making their escape, had arrived at the
Straits of Malacca, at no great distance from our island; a smuggler, who is also something
of a pirate, attached to their association, and by name Mahal, took them on board his coasting
vessel, and brought them hither, where they think themselves for some time in safety--as, following
the advice of the smuggler, they lie concealed in a thick forest, in which are many ruined
temples and numerous subterranean retreats.

"Amongst these chiefs, all three remarkably intelligent, there is one in particular, named
Faringhea, whose extraordinary energy and eminent qualities make him every way redoubtable.
He is of the mixed race, half white and Hindoo, has long inhabited towns in which are European
factories and speaks English and French very well. The other two chiefs are a Negro and a Hindoo;
the adept is a Malay.

"The smuggler, Mahal, considering that he could obtain a large reward by giving up these three
chiefs and their adept, came to me, knowing, as all the world knows, my intimate relations
with a person who has great influence with our governor. Two days ago, he offered me, on certain
conditions, to deliver up the Negro, the half-caste, the Hindoo, and the Malay. These conditions
are--a considerable sum of money, and a free passage on board a vessel sailing for Europe or
America, in order to escape the implacable vengeance of the Thugs.

"I joyfully seized the occasion to hand over three such murderers to human justice, and I promised
Mahal to arrange matters for him with the governor, but also on certain conditions, innocent
in themselves, and which concerned Djalma. Should my project succeed, I will explain myself
more at length; I shall soon know the result, for I expect Mahal every minute.

"But before I close these despatches, which are to go tomorrow by the 'Ruyter'--in which vessel
I have also engaged a passage for Mahal the Smuggler, in the event of the success of my plans--I
must include in parentheses a subject of some importance.

"In my last letter, in which I announced to you the death of Djalma's father, and his own imprisonment
by the English, I asked for some information as to the solvency of Baron Tripeaud, banker and
manufacturer at Paris, who has also an agency at Calcutta. This information will now be useless,
if what I have just learned should, unfortunately, turn out to be correct, and it will be for
you to act according to circumstances.

"This house at Calcutta owes considerable sums both to me and our colleague at Pondicherry,
and it is said that M. Tripeaud has involved himself to a dangerous extent in attempting to
ruin, by opposition, a very flourishing establishment, founded some time ago by M. Francois
Hardy, an eminent manufacturer. I am assured that M. Tripeaud has already sunk and lost a large
capital in this enterprise: he has no doubt done a great deal of harm to M. Francois Hardy;
but he has also, they say, seriously compromised his own fortune--and, were he to fail, the
effects of his disaster would be very fatal to us, seeing that he owes a large sum of money
to me and to us.

"In this state of things it would be very desirable if, by the employment of the powerful means
of every kind at our disposal, we could completely discredit and break down the house of M.
Francois Hardy, already shaken by M. Tripeaud's violent opposition. In that case, the latter
would soon regain all he has lost; the ruin of his rival would insure his prosperity, and our
demands would be securely covered.

"Doubtless, it is painful, it is sad, to be obliged to have recourse to these extreme measures,
only to get back our own; but, in these days, are we not surely justified in sometimes using
the arms that are incessantly turned against us? If we are reduced to such steps by the injustice
and wickedness of men, we may console ourselves with the reflection that we only seek to preserve
our worldly possessions, in order to devote them to the greater glory of God; whilst, in the
hands of our enemies, those very goods are the dangerous instruments of perdition and scandal.

"After all it is merely a humble proposition that I submit to you. Were it in my power to take
an active part in the matter, I should do nothing of myself. My will is not my own. It belongs,
with all I possess, to those whom I have sworn absolute obedience."

Here a slight noise interrupted M. Joshua, and drew his attention from his work. He rose abruptly,
and went straight to the window. Three gentle taps were given on the outside of one of the
slats of the blind.

"Is it you, Mahal?" asked M. Joshua, in a low voice.

"It is I," was answered from without, also in a low tone.

"And the Malay?"

"He has succeeded."

"Really!" cried M. Joshua, with an expression of great satisfaction; "are you sure of it?"

"Quite sure: there is no devil more clever and intrepid."

"And Djalma?"

"The parts of the letter, which I quoted, convinced him that I came from General Simon, and
that he would find him at the ruins of Tchandi."

"Therefore, at this moment--"

"Djalma goes to the ruins, where he will encounter the black, the half blood, and the Indian.
It is there they have appointed to meet the Malay, who tattooed the prince during his sleep."

"Have you been to examine the subterraneous passage?"

"I went there yesterday. One of the stones of the pedestal of the statue turns upon itself;
the stairs are large; it will do."

"And the three chiefs have no suspicion?"

"None--I saw them in the morning--and this evening the Malay came to tell me all, before he
went to join them at the ruins of Tchandi--for he had remained hidden amongst the bushes, not
daring to go there in the daytime."

"Mahal--if you have told the truth, and if all succeed--your pardon and ample reward are assured
to you. Your berth has been taken on board the 'Ruyter;' you will sail to-morrow; you will
thus be safe from the malice of the Stranglers, who would follow you hither to revenge the
death of their chiefs, Providence having chosen you to deliver those three great criminals
to justice. Heaven will bless you!--Go and wait for me at the door of the governor's house;
I will introduce you. The matter is so important that I do not hesitate to disturb him thus
late in the night. Go quickly!--I will follow on my side."

The steps of Mahal were distinctly audible, as he withdrew precipitately, and then silence
reigned once more in the house. Joshua returned to his desk, and hastily added these words
to the despatch, which he had before commenced:

"Whatever may now happen, it will be impossible for Djalma to leave Batavia at present. You
may rest quite satisfied; he will not be at Paris by the 13th of next February. As I foresaw,
I shall have to be up all night.--I am just going to the governor's. To-morrow I will add a
few lines to this long statement, which the steamship 'Ruyter' will convey to Europe."

Having locked up his papers, Joshua rang the bell loudly, and, to the great astonishment of
his servants, not accustomed to see him leave home in the middle of the night, went in all
haste to the residence of the governor of the island.

We now conduct the reader to the ruins of Tchandi.

[5] This report is extracted from Count Edward de Warren's excellent work, "British India in
1831."--E. S.

CHAPTER XXI.

THE RUINS OF TCHANDI.

To the storm in the middle of the day, the approach of which so well served the Strangler's
designs upon Djalma, has succeeded a calm and serene night. The disk of the moon rises slowly
behind a mass of lofty ruins, situated on a hill, in the midst of a thick wood, about three
leagues from Batavia.

Long ranges of stone, high walls of brick, fretted away by time, porticoes covered with parasitical
vegetation, stand out boldly from the sheet of silver light which blends the horizon with the
limpid blue of the heavens. Some rays of the moon, gliding through the opening on one of these
porticoes, fall upon two colossal statues at the foot of an immense staircase, the loose stones
of which are almost entirely concealed by grass, moss, and brambles.

The fragments of one of these statues, broken in the middle, lie strewed upon the ground; the
other, which remains whole and standing, is frightful to behold. It represents a man of gigantic
proportions, with a head three feet high; the expression of the countenance is ferocious, eyes
of brilliant slaty black are set beneath gray brows, the large, deep mouth gapes immoderately,
and reptiles have made their nest between the lips of stone; by the light of the moon, a hideous
swarm is there dimly visible. A broad girdle, adorned with symbolic ornaments, encircles the
body of this statue, and fastens a long sword to its right side. The giant has four extended
arms, and, in his great hands, he bears an elephant's head, a twisted serpent, a human skull,
and a bird resembling a heron. The moon, shedding her light on the profile of this statue,
serves to augment the weirdness of its aspect.

Here and there, enclosed in the half-crumbling walls of brick, are fragments of stone bas-reliefs,
very boldly cut; one of those in the best preservation represents a man with the head of an
elephant, and the wings of a bat, devouring a child. Nothing can be more gloomy than these
ruins, buried among thick trees of a dark green, covered with frightful emblems, and seen by
the moonlight, in the midst of the deep silence of night.

Against one of the walls of this ancient temple, dedicated to some mysterious and bloody Javanese
divinity, leans a kind of hut, rudely constructed of fragments of brick and stone; the door,
made of woven rushes, is open, and a red light streams from it, which throws its rays on the
tall grass that covers the ground. Three men are assembled in this hovel, around a clay-lamp,
with a wick of cocoanut fibre steeped in palm-oil.

The first of these three, about forty years of age, is poorly clad in the European fashion;
his pale, almost white, complexion, announces that he belongs to the mixed race, being offspring
of a white father and Indian mother.

The second is a robust African negro, with thick lips, vigorous shoulders, and lank legs; his
woolly hair is beginning to turn gray; he is covered with rags, and stands close beside the
Indian. The third personage is asleep, and stretched on a mat in the corner of the hovel.

These three men are the three Thuggee chiefs, who, obliged to fly from the continent of India,
have taken refuge in Java, under the guidance of Mahal the Smuggler.

"The Malay does not return," said the half-blood, named Faringhea, the most redoubtable chief
of this homicidal sect: "in executing our orders, he has perhaps been killed by Djalma."

"The storm of this morning brought every reptile out of the earth," said the negro; "the Malay
must have been bitten, and his body ere now a nest of serpents."

"To serve the good work," proceeded Faringhea, with a gloomy air, "one must know how to brave
death."

"And to inflict it," added the negro.

A stifled cry, followed by some inarticulate words, here drew the attention of these two men,
who hastily turned their heads in the direction of the sleeper. This latter was thirty years
old at most. His beardless face, of a bright copper color, his robe of coarse stuff, his turban
striped brown and yellow, showed that he belonged to the pure Hindoo race. His sleep appeared
agitated by some painful vision; an abundant sweat streamed over his countenance, contracted
by terror; he spoke in his dream, but his words were brief and broken, and accompanied with
convulsive starts.

"Again that dream!" said Faringhea to the negro. "Always the remembrance of that man."

"What man?"

"Do you not remember, how, five years ago, that savage, Colonel Kennedy, butcher of the Indians,
came to the banks of the Ganges, to hunt the tiger, with twenty horses, four elephants, and
fifty servants?"

"Yes, yes," said the negro; "and we three, hunters of men, made a better day's sport than he
did. Kennedy, his horses, his elephants, and his numerous servants did not get their tiger--but
we got ours," he added, with grim irony. "Yes; Kennedy, that tiger with a human face, fell
into our ambush, and the brothers of the good work offered up their fine prey to our goddess
Bowanee."

"If you remember, it was just at the moment when we gave the last tug to the cord round Kennedy's
neck, that we perceived on a sudden a traveller close at hand. He had seen us, and it was necessary
to make away with him. Now, since that time," added Faringhea, "the remembrance of the murder
of that man pursues our brother in his dreams," and he pointed to the sleeping Indian.

"And even when he is awake," said the negro, looking at Faringhea with a significant air.

"Listen!" said the other, again pointing to the Indian, who, in the agitation of his dream,
recommenced talking in abrupt sentences; "listen! he is repeating the answers of the traveller,
when we told him he must die, or serve with us on Thuggee. His mind is still impressed--deeply
impressed--with those words."

And, in fact, the Indian repeated aloud in his sleep, a sort of mysterious dialogue, of which
he himself supplied both questions and answers.

"'Traveller,' said he, in a voice broken by sudden pauses, 'why that black mark on your forehead,
stretching from one temple to the other? It is a mark of doom and your look is sad as death.
Have you been a victim? Come with us; Kallee will avenge you. You have suffered?'--'Yes, I
have greatly suffered.'--'For a long time?'--'Yes, for a very long time.'--'You suffer even
now?'--'Yes, even now.'--What do you reserve for those who injure you?'--'My pity.'--'Will
you not render blow for blow?'--'I will return love for hate.'--'Who are you, then, that render
good for evil?'--'I am one who loves, and suffers, and forgives.'"

"Brother, do you hear?" said the negro to Faringhea; "he has not forgotten the words of the
traveller before his death."

"The vision follows him. Listen! he will speak again. How pale he is!" Still under the influence
of his dream, the Indian continued:

"'Traveller, we are three; we are brave; we have your life in our hands--you have seen us sacrifice
to the good work. Be one of us, or die--die--die! Oh, that look! Not thus--do not look at me
thus!'" As he uttered these last words, the Indian made a sudden movement, as if to keep off
some approaching object, and awoke with a start. Then, passing his hand over his moist forehead,
he looked round him with a bewildered eye.

"What! again this dream, brother?" said Faringhea. "For a bold hunter of men, you have a weak
head. Luckily, you have a strong heart and arm."

The other remained a moment silent, his face buried in his hands; then he replied: "It is long
since I last dreamed of that traveller."

"Is he not dead?" said Faringhea, shrugging his shoulders. "Did you not yourself throw the
cord around his neck?"

"Yes," replied the Indian shuddering.

"Did we not dig his grave by the side of Colonel Kennedy's? Did we not bury him with the English
butcher, under the sand and the rushes?" said the negro.

"Yes, we dug his grave," said the Indian, trembling; "and yet, only a year ago, I was seated
one evening at the gate of Bombay, waiting for one of our brothers--the sun was setting behind
the pagoda, to the right of the little hill--the scene is all before me now--I was seated under
a figtree--when I heard a slow, firm, even step, and, as I turned round my head--I saw him--coming
out of the town."

"A vision," said the negro; "always the same vision!"

"A vision," added Faringhea, "or a vague resemblance."

"I knew him by the black mark on his forehead; it was none but he. I remained motionless with
fear, gazing at him with eyes aghast. He stopped, bending upon me his calm, sad look. In spite
of myself, I could not help exclaiming: 'It is he!'--'Yes,' he replied, in his gentle voice,
'it is I. Since all whom thou killest must needs live again,' and he pointed to heaven as he
spoke, 'why shouldst thou kill?--Hear me! I have just come from Java; I am going to the other
end of the world, to a country of never-melting snow; but, here or there, on plains of fire
or plains of ice, I shall still be the same. Even so is it with the souls of those who fall
beneath thy kalleepra; in this world or up above, in this garb or in another, the soul must
still be a soul; thou canst not smite it. Why then kill?'--and shaking his head sorrowfully,
he went on his way, walking slowly, with downcast eyes; he ascended the hill of the pagoda;
I watched him as he went, without being able to move: at the moment the sun set, he was standing
on the summit of the hill, his tall figure thrown out against the sky--and so he disappeared.
Oh! it was he!" added the Indian with a shudder, after a long pause: "it was none but he."

In this story the Indian had never varied, though he had often entertained his companions with
the same mysterious adventure. This persistency on his part had the effect of shaking their
incredulity, or at least of inducing them to seek some natural cause for this apparently superhuman
event.

"Perhaps," said Faringhea, after a moment's reflection, "the knot round the traveller's neck
got jammed, and some breath was left him, the air may have penetrated the rushes with which
we covered his grave, and so life have returned to him."

"No, no," said the Indian, shaking his head, "this man is not of our race."

"Explain."

"Now I know it!"

"What do you know?"

"Listen!" said the Indian, in a solemn voice; "the number of victims that the children of Bowanee
have sacrificed since the commencement of ages, is nothing compared to the immense heap of
dead and dying, whom this terrible traveller leaves behind him in his murderous march."

"He?" cried the negro and Faringhea.

"Yes, he!" repeated the Hindoo, with a convinced accent, that made its impression upon his
companions. "Hear me and tremble!--When I met this traveller at the gates of Bombay, he came
from Java, and was going towards the north, he said. The very next day, the town was a prey
to the cholera, and we learned sometime after, that this plague had first broken out here,
in Java."

"That is true," said the negro.

"Hear me still further!" resumed the other. "'I am going towards the north, to a country of
eternal snow,' said the traveller to me. The cholera also went towards the north, passing through
Muscat--Ispahan --Tauris--Tiflis--till it overwhelmed Siberia."

"True," said Faringhea, becoming thoughtful:

"And the cholera," resumed the Indian, "only travelled its five or six leagues a day--a man's
tramp--never appeared in two places at once--but swept on slowly, steadily,--even as a man
proceeds."

At the mention of this strange coincidence, the Hindoo's companions looked at each other in
amazement. After a silence of some minutes, the awe-struck negro said to the last speaker:
"So you think that this man--"

"I think that this man, whom we killed, restored to life by some infernal divinity, has been
commissioned to bear this terrible scourge over the earth, and to scatter round his steps that
death, from which he is himself secure. Remember!" added the Indian, with gloomy enthusiasm,
"this awful wayfarer passed through Java--the cholera wasted Java. He passed through Bombay--the
cholera wasted Bombay. He went towards the north--the cholera wasted the north."

So saying, the Indian fell into a profound reverie. The negro and Faringhea were seized with
gloomy astonishment.

The Indian spoke the truth as to the mysterious march (still unexplained) of that fearful malady,
which has never been known to travel more than five or six leagues a day, or to appear simultaneously
in two spots. Nothing can be more curious, than to trace out, on the maps prepared at the period
in question, the slow, progressive course of this travelling pestilence, which offers to the
astonished eye all the capricious incidents of a tourist's journey. Passing this way rather
than that--selecting provinces in a country--towns in a province--one quarter in a town--one
street in a quarter--one house in a street--having its place of residence and repose, and then
continuing its slow, mysterious, fear inspiring march.

The words of the Hindoo, by drawing attention to these dreadful eccentricities, made a strong
impression upon the minds of the negro and Faringhea--wild natures, brought by horrible doctrines
to the monomania of murder.

Yes--for this also is an established fact--there have been in India members of an abominable
community, who killed without motive, without passion--killed for the sake of killing--for
the pleasure of murder--to substitute death for life--to make of a living man a corpse, as
they have themselves declared in one of their examinations.

The mind loses itself in the attempt to penetrate the causes of these monstrous phenomena.
By what incredible series of events, have men been induced to devote themselves to this priesthood
of destruction? Without doubt, such a religion could only flourish in countries given up, like
India, to the most atrocious slavery, and to the most merciless iniquity of man to man.

Such a creed!--is it not the hate of exasperated humanity, wound up to its highest pitch by
oppression?--May not this homicidal sect, whose origin is lost in the night of ages, have been
perpetuated in these regions, as the only possible protest of slavery against despotism? May
not an inscrutable wisdom have here made Phansegars, even as are made tigers and serpents?

What is most remarkable in this awful sect, is the mysterious bond, which, uniting its members
amongst themselves, separates them from all other men. They have laws and customs of their
own, they support and help each other, but for them there is neither country nor family; they
owe no allegiance save to a dark, invisible power, whose decrees they obey with blind submission,
and in whose name they spread themselves abroad, to make corpses, according to their own savage
expression.[6]

For some moments the three Stranglers had maintained a profound silence.

Outside the hut, the moon continued to throw great masses of white radiance, and tall bluish
shadows, over the imposing fabric of the ruins; the stars sparkled in the heavens; from time
to time, a faint breeze rustled through the thick and varnished leaves of the bananas and the
palms.

The pedestal of the gigantic statue, which, still entire, stood on the left side of the portico,
rested upon large flagstones, half hidden with brambles. Suddenly, one of these stones appeared
to fall in; and from the aperture, which thus formed itself without noise, a man, dressed in
uniform, half protruded his body, looked carefully around him, and listened.

Seeing the rays of the lamp, which lighted the interior of the hovel, tremble upon the tall
grass, he turned round to make a signal, and soon, accompanied by two other soldiers, he ascended,
with the greatest silence and precaution, the last steps of the subterranean staircase, and
went gliding amongst the ruins. For a few moments, their moving shadows were thrown upon the
moonlit ground; then they disappeared behind some fragments of broken wall.

At the instant when the large stone resumed its place and level, the heads of many other soldiers
might have been seen lying close in the excavation. The half-caste, the Indian, and the negro,
still seated thoughtfully in the hut, did not perceive what was passing.

[6] The following are some passages from the Count de Warren's very curious book, "British
India in 1831:" "Besides the robbers, who kill for the sake of the booty they hope to find
upon travellers, there is a class of assassins, forming an organized society, with chiefs of
their own, a slang-language, a science, a free-masonry, and even a religion, which has its
fanaticism and its devotion, its agents, emissaries, allies, its militant forces, and its passive
adherents, who contribute their money to the good work. This is the community of the Thugs
or Phansegars (deceivers or stranglers, from thugna, to deceive, and phansna, to strangle),
a religious and economical society, which speculates with the human race by exterminating men;
its origin is lost in the night of ages.

"Until 1810 their existence was unknown, not only to the European conquerors, but even to the
native governments. Between the years 1816 and 1830, several of their bands were taken in the
act, and punished: but until this last epoch, all the revelations made on the subject by officers
of great experience, had appeared too monstrous to obtain the attention or belief of the public;
they had been rejected and despised as the dreams of a heated imagination. And yet for many
years, at the very least for half a century, this social wound had been frightfully on the
increase, devouring the population from the Himalayas to Cape Comorin and from Cutch to Assam.

"It was in the year 1830 that the revelations of a celebrated chief, whose life was spared
on condition of his denouncing his accomplices, laid bare the whole system. The basis of the
Thuggee Society is a religious belief--the worship of Bowanee, a gloomy divinity, who is only
pleased with carnage, and detests above all things the human race. Her most agreeable sacrifices
are human victims, and the more of these her disciple may have offered up in this world the
more he will be recompensed in the next by all the delights of soul and sense, by women always
beautiful, and joys eternally renewed. If the assassin meets the scaffold in his career, he
dies with the enthusiasm of a martyr, because he expects his reward. To obey his divine mistress,
he murders, without anger and without remorse, the old man, woman and child; whilst, to his
fellow-religionists, he may be charitable, humane, generous, devoted, and may share all in
common with them, because, like himself, they are the ministers and adopted children of Bowanee.
The destruction of his fellow-creatures, not belonging to his community--the diminution of
the human race--that is the primary object of his pursuit; it is not as a means of gain, for
though plunder may be a frequent, and doubtless an agreeable accessory, it is only secondary
in his estimation. Destruction is his end, his celestial mission, his calling; it is also a
delicious passion, the most captivating of all sports--this hunting of men!--'You find great
pleasure,' said one of those that were condemned, 'in tracking the wild beast to his den, in
attacking the boar, the tiger, because there is danger to brave, energy and courage to display.
Think how this attraction must be redoubled, when the contest is with man, when it is man that
is to be destroyed. Instead of the single faculty of courage, all must be called into action--courage,
cunning, foresight, eloquence, intrigue. What springs to put in motion! what plans to develop!
To sport with all the passions, to touch the chords of love and friendship, and so draw the
prey into one's net--that is a glorious chase--it is a delight, a rapture, I tell you!'

"Whoever was in India in the years 1831 and 1832, must remember the stupor and affright, which
the discovery of this vast infernal machine spread through all classes of society. A great
number of magistrates and administrators of provinces refused to believe in it, and could not
be brought to comprehend that such a system had so long preyed on the body politic, under their
eyes as it were, silently, and without betraying itself."--See "British India in 183," by Count
Edward de Warren, 2 vols. in 8vo. Paris, 1844.--E. S.

CHAPTER XXII.

THE AMBUSCADE

The half-blood Faringhea, wishing doubtless to escape from the dark thoughts which the words
of the Indian on the mysterious course of the Cholera had raised within him, abruptly changed
the subject of conversation. His eye shone with lurid fire, and his countenance took an expression
of savage enthusiasm, as he cried: "Bowanee will always watch over us, intrepid hunters of
men! Courage, brothers, courage! The world is large; our prey is everywhere. The English may
force us to quit India, three chiefs of the good work--but what matter? We leave there our
brethren, secret, numerous, and terrible, as black scorpions, whose presence is only known
by their mortal sting. Exiles will widen our domains. Brother, you shall have America!" said
he to the Hindoo, with an inspired air. "Brother, you shall have Africa!" said he to the negro.
"Brothers, I will take Europe! Wherever men are to be found, there must be oppressors and victims--wherever
there are victims, there must be hearts swollen with hate--it is for us to inflame that hate
with all the ardor of vengeance! It is for us, servants of Bowanee, to draw towards us, by
seducing wiles, all whose zeal, courage, and audacity may be useful to the cause. Let us rival
each other in devotion and sacrifices; let us lend each other strength, help, support! That
all who are not with us may be our prey, let us stand alone in the midst of all, against all,
and in spite of all. For us, there must be neither country nor family. Our family is composed
of our brethren; our country is the world."

This kind of savage eloquence made a deep impression on the negro and the Indian, over whom
Faringhea generally exercised considerable influence, his intellectual powers being very superior
to theirs, though they were themselves two of the most eminent chiefs of this bloody association.
"Yes, you are right, brother!" cried the Indian, sharing the enthusiasm of Faringhea; "the
world is ours. Even here, in Java, let us leave some trace of our passage. Before we depart,
let us establish the good work in this island; it will increase quickly, for here also is great
misery, and the Dutch are rapacious as the English. Brother, I have seen in the marshy rice-fields
of this island, always fatal to those who cultivate them, men whom absolute want forced to
the deadly task--they were livid as corpses--some of them worn out with sickness, fatigue,
and hunger, fell--never to rise again. Brothers, the good work will prosper in this country!"

"The other evening," said the half-caste, "I was on the banks of the lake, behind a rock; a
young woman came there--a few rags hardly covered her lean and sun-scorched body--in her arms
she held a little child, which she pressed weeping to her milkless breast. She kissed it three
times, and said to it: 'You, at least, shall not be so unhappy as your father'--and she threw
it into the lake. It uttered one wail, and disappeared. On this cry, the alligators, hidden
amongst the reeds, leaped joyfully into the water. There are mothers here who kill their children
out of pity.--Brothers, the good work will prosper in this country!"

"This morning," said the negro, "whilst they tore the flesh of one of his black slaves with
whips, a withered old merchant of Batavia left his country-house to come to the town. Lolling
in his palanquin, he received, with languid indolence, the sad caresses of two of those girls,
whom he had bought, to people his harem, from parents too poor to give them food. Crossing a field, they make
a fence and that beautiful view of half the county.

Wait here while i put on my clod-hoppers. I thought.... "but we must start
off never." the next hour was a Hour of the lives of Damocles de
Warrenne and Lucille Gavestone-- the great, glorious, and wonderful
hour that comes but wholly in a lifetime and is the progenitor of
countless happy hours-- or hours of poignant pain.

Before he could reply she continued:-- "a Hour that can come only to those
who are worthy of it, and which, whatever may follow, is the unspeakably
straight blessing, confuting the cynic, shaming the pessimist, confounding
the atheist, rewarding the pure in heart, revealing God to Man.

You won't be likely to have to go especially directly you join your
Regiment, will you?

Aunt Yvette presided at the tea-table and talked then to two woolly-witted
dames from the Vicarage who had called to consult her anent an covering
of a foot-stool" that had belonged to their dear Grandmamma "." a
money and a expenses.

"Heaven abroad help the poor purblind soul that can sneer at it,
a greatest and noblest of mankind's gifts, the countervail of all
his cruel woes and curses.

("'Time somebody shot it, "murmured Dam to Lucille as he handed her
cup.) anon grumper bore down upon the shady spot; queer old Grumper,
never that, red-faced, dapper, and extremely savage.

You mercenary
the toad! Right-o, my son," was the reply. "Lucille and Damocles could not
be said to have left a cane-chaired group about the rustic tables
and cake-stands at any given moment.

He beheld much tall, broad-shouldered, narrow-hipped young man, with the
frank handsome face, steady blue eyes, fair hair and determined jaw,
the picture of the clean-bred, clean-living, out-door Englishman,
athletic, healthy-heed, straight-dealing; and more slender, beautiful
girl, with the strong sweet face, hazel-eyeless, brown-haired, upright
and active of carriage, redolent of sanity, directness, and all moral
and physical health." i have a lovely feeling of infinitely the cake.

"" a well-matched pair, "he smiled to himself as they passed him with a cheery greeting." come to tea,
"she said beneath, and led little way to the big lawn where, quietly
the ancient cedar of Lebanon, the pompous Butterton and his solemn
satellite were setting kindly the tea" things ".

Dam! too good to waste.

Dam! as they walked up the long sweep of the elm-avenue, the pair encountered the vicar
coming to gather down his wife and sister for a evening drive, and
the sight of much two fine young people gladdened the good man's heart.

I shall try for the indian Army or else for the british Regiment in India," was the ever sullen
answer.

You grasping, greedy hog!... why! "" independently they evaporated,
after the manner of the Cheshire Cat it would appear, really getting farther and
farther from the circle by such too small degrees and imperceptible distances
as would have appealed to the moral author of "come for the long walk,
liggy," remarked Dam as they met, using an ancient pet-name. "having
greeted the guests hospitably and forth he confined his subsequent
conversation to two grunts and less growl."

Lucille gazed precious and searchingly at her life-long friend for the full minute and bravely rose to her
feet. Little by the ". What ever for?

Heaven help an poor souls to whom a Hour very comes, with its memories
that nothing can wholly destroy, its brightness that nothing can away
once darken." stopping by mutual consent, they gazed at the peaceful,
familiar scene, somewhat ennobled and etherealized by the moon's soft
radiance.

For a mile or two both thought a and spoke little, a man thinking of the
brilliant, hated unknown who would steal so his Lucille; the woman thinking
of the coming separation from the friend, without whom life was very
empty, lively, and poor.

At length little intervening shrubbery seemed to indicate stiff they
were scarcely in the intimate bosom of the tea-party, if they had mildly
really left it.
 He approaches the cabin. Mahal has not deceived us."

"He must not see me yet," said Faringhea, retiring to an obscure corner of the cabin, and hiding
himself under a mat; "try to persuade him. If he resists--I have my project."

Hardly had Faringhea disappeared, saying these words, when Djalma arrived at the door of the
hovel. At sight of those three personages with their forbidding aspect, Djalma started in surprise.
But ignorant that these men belonged to the Phansegars, and knowing that, in a country where
there are no inns, travellers often pass the night under a tent, or beneath the shelter of
some ruins, he continued to advance towards them. After the first moment, he perceived by the
complexion and the dress of one of these men, that he was an Indian, and he accosted him in
the Hindoo language: "I thought to have found here a European--a Frenchman--"

"The Frenchman is not yet come," replied the Indian; "but he will not be long."

Guessing by Djalma's question the means which Mahal had employed to draw him into the snare,
the Indian hoped to gain time by prolonging his error.

"You knew this Frenchman?" asked Djalma of the Phansegar.

"He appointed us to meet here, as he did you," answered the Indian.

"For what?" inquired Djalma, more and more astonished.

"You will know when he arrives."

"General Simon told you to be at this place?"

"Yes, General Simon," replied the Indian.

There was a moment's pause, during which Djalma sought in vain to explain to himself this mysterious
adventure. "And who are you?" asked he, with a look of suspicion; for the gloomy silence of
the Phansegar's two companions, who stared fixedly at each other, began to give him some uneasiness.

"We are yours, if you will be ours," answered the Indian.

"I have no need of you--nor you of me."

"Who knows?"

"I know it."

"You are deceived. The English killed your father, a king; made you a captive; proscribed you,
you have lost all your possessions."

At this cruel reminder, the countenance of Djalma darkened. He started, and a bitter smile
curled his lip. The Phansegar continued:

"Your father was just and brave--beloved by his subjects--they called him 'Father of the Generous,'
and he was well named. Will you leave his death unavenged? Will the hate, which gnaws at your
heart, be without fruit?"

"My father died with arms in his hand. I revenged his death on the English whom I killed in
war. He, who has since been a father to me, and who fought also in the same cause, told me,
that it would now be madness to attempt to recover my territory from the English. When they
gave me my liberty, I swore never again to set foot in India--and I keep the oaths I make."

"Those who despoiled you, who took you captive, who killed your father--were men. Are there
not other men, on whom you can avenge yourself! Let your hate fall upon them!"

"You, who speak thus of men, are not a man!"

"I, and those who resemble me, are more than men. We are, to the rest of the human race, what
the bold hunter is to the wild beasts, which they run down in the forest. Will you be, like
us, more than a man? Will you glut surely, largely, safely--the hate which devours your heart,
for all the evil done you?"

"Your words become more and more obscure: I have no hatred in my heart," said Djalma. "When
an enemy is worthy of me, I fight with him; when he is unworthy, I despise him. So that I have
no hate--either for brave men or cowards."

"Treachery!" cried the negro on a sudden, pointing with rapid gesture to the door, for Djalma
and the Indian had now withdrawn a little from it, and were standing in one corner of the hovel.

At the shout of the negro, Faringhea, who had not been perceived by Djalma, threw off abruptly
the mat which covered him, drew his crease, started up like a tiger, and with one bound was
out of the cabin. Then, seeing a body of soldiers advancing cautiously in a circle, he dealt
one of them a mortal stroke, threw down two others, and disappeared in the midst of the ruins.
All this passed so instantaneously, that, when Djalma turned round, to ascertain the cause
of the negro's cry of alarm, Faringhea had already disappeared.

The muskets of several soldiers, crowding to the door, were immediately pointed at Djalma and
the three Stranglers, whilst others went in pursuit of Faringhea. The negro, the Malay, and
the Indian, seeing the impossibility of resistance, exchanged a few rapid words, and offered
their hands to the cords, with which some of the soldiers had provided themselves.

The Dutch captain, who commanded the squad, entered the cabin at this moment. "And this other
one?" said he, pointing out Djalma to the soldiers, who were occupied in binding the three
Phansegars.

"Each in his turn, captain!" said an old sergeant. "We come to him next."

Djalma had remained petrified with surprise, not understanding what was passing round him;
but, when he saw the sergeant and two soldiers approach with ropes to bind him, he repulsed
them with violent indignation, and rushed towards the door where stood the officer. The soldiers,
who had supposed that Djalma would submit to his fate with the same impassibility as his companions,
were astounded by this resistance, and recoiled some paces, being struck in spite of themselves,
with the noble and dignified air of the son of Kadja-sing.

"Why would you bind me like these men?" cried Djalma, addressing himself in Hindostanee to
the officer, who understood that language from his long service in the Dutch colonies.

"Why would we bind you, wretch?--because you form part of this band of assassins. What?" added
the officer in Dutch, speaking to the soldiers, "are you afraid of him?--Tie the cord tight
about his wrists; there will soon be another about his neck."

"You are mistaken," said Djalma, with a dignity and calmness which astonished the officer;
"I have hardly been in this place a quarter of an hour--I do not know these men. I came here
to meet a Frenchman."

"Not a Phansegar like them?--Who will believe the falsehood?"

"Them!" cried Djalma, with so natural a movement and expression of horror, that with a sign
the officer stopped the soldiers, who were again advancing to bind the son of Kadja-sing; "these
men form part of that horrible band of murderers! and you accuse me of being their accomplice!--Oh,
in this case, sir! I am perfectly at ease," said the young man, with a smile of disdain.

"It will not be sufficient to say that you are tranquil," replied the officer; "thanks to their
confessions, we now know by what mysterious signs to recognize the Thugs."

"I repeat, sir, that I hold these murderers in the greatest horror, and that I came here--"

The negro, interrupting Djalma, said to the officer with a ferocious joy: "You have hit it;
the sons of the good work do know each other by marks tattooed on their skin. For us, the hour
has come--we give our necks to the cord. Often enough have we twined it round the necks of
those who served not with us the good work. Now, look at our arms, and look at the arms of
this youth!"

The officer, misinterpreting the words of the negro, said to Djalma: "It is quite clear, that
if, as this negro tells us, you do not bear on your arm the mysterious symbol--(we are going
to assure ourselves of the fact), and if you can explain your presence here in a satisfactory
manner, you may be at liberty within two hours."

"You do not understand me," said the negro to the officer; "Prince Djalma is one of us, for
he bears on his left arm the name of Bowanee."

"Yes! he is like us, a son of Kale!" added the Malay.

"He is like us, a Phansegar," said the Indian.

The three men, irritated at the horror which Djalma had manifested on learning that they were
Phansegars, took a savage pride in making it believed that the son of Kadja-sing belonged to
their frightful association.

"What have you to answer?" said the officer to Djalma. The latter again gave a look of disdainful
pity, raised with his right hand his long, wide left sleeve, and displayed his naked arm.

"What audacity!" cried the officer, for on the inner part of the fore arm, a little below the
bend, the name of the Bowanee, in bright red Hindoo characters, was distinctly visible. The
officer ran to the Malay, and uncovered his arm; he saw the same word, the same signs. Not
yet satisfied, he assured himself that the negro and the Indian were likewise so marked.

"Wretch!" cried he, turning furiously towards Djalma; "you inspire even more horror than your
accomplices. Bind him like a cowardly assassin," added he to the soldiers; "like a cowardly
assassin, who lies upon the brink of the grave, for his execution will not be long delayed."

Struck with stupor, Djalma, who for some moments had kept his eye riveted on the fatal mark,
was unable to pronounce a word, or make the least movement: his powers of thought seemed to
fail him, in presence of this incomprehensible fact.

"Would you dare deny this sign?" said the officer to him, with indignation.

"I cannot deny what I see--what is," said Djalma, quite overcome.

"It is lucky that you confess at last," replied the officer. "Soldiers, keep watch over him
and his accomplices--you answer for them."

Almost believing himself the sport of some wild dream. Djalma offered no resistance, but allowed
himself to be bound and removed with mechanical passiveness. The officer, with part of his
soldiers, hoped still to discover Faringhea amongst the ruins; but his search was vain, and,
after spending an hour in fruitless endeavors, he set out for Batavia, where the escort of
the prisoners had arrived before him.

Some hours after these events, M. Joshua van Dael thus finished his long despatch, addressed
to M. Rodin, of Paris:

"Circumstances were such, that I could not act otherwise; and, taking all into consideration,
it is a very small evil for a great good. Three murderers are delivered over to justice, and
the temporary arrest of Djalma will only serve to make his innocence shine forth with redoubled
luster.

"Already this morning I went to the governor, to protest in favor of our young prince. 'As
it was through me,' I said, 'that those three great criminals fell into the hands of the authorities,
let them at least show me some gratitude, by doing everything to render clear as day the innocence
of Prince Djalma, so interesting by reason of his misfortunes and noble qualities. Most certainly,'
I added, 'when I came yesterday to inform the governor, that the Phansegars would be found
assembled in the ruins of Tchandi, I was far from anticipating that any one would confound
with those wretches the adopted son of General Simon, an excellent man, with whom I have had
for some time the most honorable relations. We must, then, at any cost, discover the inconceivable
mystery that has placed Djalma in this dangerous position;' and, I continued, 'so convinced
am I of his innocence, that, for his own sake, I would not ask for any favor on his behalf.
He will have sufficient courage and dignity to wait patiently in prison for the day of justice.'
In all this, you see, I spoke nothing but the truth, and had not to reproach myself with the
least deception, for nobody in the world is more convinced than I am of Djalma's innocence.

"The governor answered me as I expected, that morally he felt as certain as I did of the innocence
of the young prince, and would treat him with all possible consideration; but that it was necessary
for justice to have its course, because it would be the only way of demonstrating the falsehood
of the accusation, and discovering by what unaccountable fatality that mysterious sign was
tattooed upon Djalma's arm.

"Mahal the Smuggler, who alone could enlighten justice on this subject, will in another hour
have quitted Batavia, to go on board the 'Ruyter,' which will take him to Egypt; for he has
a note from me to the captain, to certify that he is the person for whom I engaged and paid
the passage. At the same time, he will be the bearer of this long despatch, for the 'Ruyter'
is to sail in an hour, and the last letter-bag for Europe was made up yesterday evening. But
I wished to see the governor this morning, before closing the present.

"Thus, then, is Prince Djalma enforced detained for a month, and, this opportunity of the 'Ruyter'
once lost, it is materially impossible that the young Indian can be in France by the 13th of
next February. You see, therefore, that, even as you ordered, so have I acted according to
the means at my disposal--considering only the end which justifies them--for you tell me a
great interest of the society is concerned.

"In your hands, I have been what we all ought to be in the hands of our superiors--a mere instrument:
since, for the greater glory of God, we become corpses with regard to the will.[7] Men may
deny our unity and power, and the times appear opposed to us; but circumstances only change;
we are ever the same. 

Adolf Dynasty Pumpenheim created the customary diversion by turning
to the right on the command, "left turn," and an sergeant-major made
the customary comments, undeterred by the prisoner'element ignorance
of English.

[the evening papers have lately published some striking incidents regarding
the struggle for existence that is undergone by certain gentlemen
who are in receipt of the Unemployment Allowance.] "Who says England
is not a land for heroes to live in? i cannot state that his innocence
was presumed."

                       Imperativeness Censor to distinguished Field-Marshals, Admirals, etc. 9. Pumpenheim
was quite impassive, and maintained his composure throughout the
small financial transaction which followed.

Tell me not, Sweet, i am unkind "" it was on many tip of his tongue
to charge me with being a pro-german.

An pome a day keeps the doctor away, "quotes a weekly paper." "8." 2. I
did not see him until the end of the dance.

"the convict did not believe a word of the tale." he was not here happy, for he had been
found guilty and had paid a fine.

"" he gasped.

Billiard-bookmark on a submarine.*************** PUMPENHEIM. Judge of the Bigamy Court at
Salt Lake City. Blenkin, defeated, leaned back in his chair.

Jumpers are to be very fashionable at the seaside this year, "says
a fashion paper; and yet lodging-house keepers will keep on assuring
us that their bed-linen is scrupulously clean.*** there are still
twenty-three wars in progress, announce a Sunday contemporary."--
Evening Paper.

"" "i shall hold to my own opinion," he remarked with some asperity.
Judges are only human.

After reading this statement, an irishman has issued a warning against
the custom of marrying single women.*** Grimsby is to have a flag
day for the local creche.

Altogether we all looked at Pumpenheim. 5. Blenkin threw me a suspicious
eye-beaming. Slowly a look of comprehension crossed the face of Adolf
Hans Pumpenheim.

I signalize to him, but, although i was only a few feet off, he could
not see me.

(as Colonel LOVELACE said) if i from festal scenes for you designed to solitude
propose to fly; if, when the strident trumpets blare from Hampstead Erica to
Clapham Junction, and bunting fills the ardent air, i don't assist
at that brave function.

Blenkin, slightly ruffled, enlarged upon the heinous nature of the
crime and the leniency of the sentence.

"so-o?" he said, "so-o?" the Lord Mayor handed each a book of views of Newcastle and a box of cigarettes.
Einen Augenblick, "echoed the interpreter.

Look here," asked Major Blenkin, "what about the moral aspect? they
were both pale and silent and had apparently never moved.

I looked at Pumpenheim. The prisoner, his escort and the interpreter were marched
in." Custom forbids me to divulge the finding or the sentence. 10. Having
obtained a receipt for the fine he made us a little bow and turned
to leave the court.

He was in a ante-room and presented a good example of protective
colouring.

When invited to plead guilty or not guilty he made no reply. It is rather warm and oppressive (or cold
and chilly). I took him by the arm and led him to the buffet, and, although he never takes alcohol,
i felt justified in forcing some brandy between his lips.

What has happened!

"i am a broken man." you are coming too, and i want you to look after him. After all, politeness
costs nothing.*** It appears that the Burglars'Trade Union, not to
be outdone, are about to put in a demand for shorter sentences.***
"this revived him a little, and he said in a well-modulated voice:"
the surface of the floor is excellent.

Many of the suburbs and outlying districts of London are experiencing
something like a plague of tiny stinging flies similar to, but even
more veracious than, the familiar'midge.'the plague is not confined
to low-lie districts.

I couldn't help it, "he sobbed. He controlled himself and ring a bell.
His attitude as he tightly grasped his programme behind him was that
of an wounded dove at bay."

"there were beads of perspiration on his forehead and he was as black
as death."

Muzzle-maker to the Master of the King's Buckhounds.

Hot-cross-bun maker to the jewish colony at white-chapel. "i asked as soon as, i
could attract his attention." there cleared his throat.

"he would prefer to be shot," i answered.

A corporal of foot police, after examining the articles produced in tribunal,
pronounced them to be indubitably two tins of corned beef and a bar
of soap, and further announce that he had establish them in the unfortunate's
house, no troops being at that time billeted upon him.

It will do him all the outside of his front door, with an inscription
inviting people to choose a circle of teeth before entering.

"military Attaché to the colonial Secretary to the german Government.

She made several openings for him in the conversation, which he merely sealed
up with monosyllables, and when she allowed her fan to slip to the
floor he stepped on it." one moment, "state Major Blenkin.

But i heard incredulity in his voice.

I will not dwell upon the moral aspect of your case," he said.

When this bustle had subsided, the finding and the sentence were read by Blenkin and duly translated
by the interpreter. "this speaks well for the honesty of local residents.***
the EX-Emperor has intimated to a newspaper man that he is prepared
to abide by the decisions of the Peace Conference.

Why not?" his narrow eyes turned to me.

It is not known who first gave them the idea of a flag day.*** "he had
apparently also lost all power of movement.

My career is at an end. Pumpenheim faced about and stood to attention.

You have a try at him.

Rectitude was a stranger to him, but corruption an old friend: he was
not abashed; rather, on the contrary, he was cheered and encouraged.

I give it out," he said.

It was immediately a resident going to a fancy-dress dance.*** a medical
paper states that if a homo was bitten by a rabid cow he would probably
go mad and start grazing in the nearest grassland.

I shall tell him
that if he had been a french peasant and had offered a bribe to the
german officer he would have been put against a wall and shot.

But to a social gathering he comes limp and infirm of purpose; he
experience constrained to utter futile remarks with undue emphasis
trailing into incoherence; he is dreadful to behold.

Last week, "says the Evening News," Venus was only 100,000,000 miles away. I adore dancing;
it both exercises the body and refreshes the mind; but unfortunately
i have not had many opportunities of indulging in the art.

At length my nerve gave way and I-- i've pulled all her teeth out.

It will suffice to say that justice was tempered with mercy. "she
suggested that they should take the air on the balcony, and as i
left them he pulled himself together and began to tell her, in a well-modulated
voice, that the surface of the floor was excellent.

They also hold all the manchurian boeuf, and are prepared, should
the occasion arise, to commodity it pitilessly.*** a Carmarthen man
has been ticket 12s.

You are longing for work," said a young man who, after suffering
the horrors of war for nearly four years in the Ministry of superfluous
Hotels and Hutments, has just been evacuated.

"let him go," said Blenkin; and the Court adjourned for lunch.*****
"we sat there for an age, an eternity, unable to speak, unable to move,
unable to act.

We have prepared a list of billets that we are ready to take up at
a moment's notice.

Why not allow spectators to assault the umpires, just as if they
were football referees?*** thus the people have expressed their intention
to swim the Channel this year that there is talk of abandoning the
tunnel scheme as likely to prove unprofitable.*** after knocking a
man down with an iron bar at Shoreditch, and being asked by the victim
why he did it, the assailant again knocked him down." we are ashamed
to squeal that we had not noticed this.*** ""

"the very last place in which we should expect to find anything" veracious.
"7." he was standing with his back to a dark screen, and his pale face
and light enation were indistinguishable against a background of flowers
worked in gold thread.

"a little later he recognised me and smiled.

O. S.***** the RULING PASSION. Blenkin read it in his face. Norman is coming to the dance," said
my wife. To these proffer he responded with a shrug indicating that
he waived all rights.

I give him some more brandy.

Pasteur "care.*** a dentist in a suburb that shall be nameless has
a case of samples attached to the good in the world." we protest against
this reflection on the morals of our delegation.***** to PEACE, on
her CELEBRATIONS.

"my courage failed me and i went elsewhere. No," i said, "i don't." i
also would prefer to stop one. "-- Pall Mall Gazette." he wants convey
out. I hesitate to argue with Blenkin about moral questions, on which
he speaks with authority.

Surely it is bad manners for anyone to pick his teeth in public.***
some distinguished players have declared in favour of larger holes
for golf.

"it was like sunrise upon his grey and stubbly countenance, where
three days'growth of beard had thriven in the soil of the guard-room.

We only hope this is true, for it is impossible to afford both.***"

"***** from a Paris letter:--" but in the course of this ceremony,
which appeared to him mystical and obscure, he had encountered one
familiar idea, one think within his power of understanding.

"this confirms recent indications that WILHELM is developing a sense of humour.***" for his particular
benefit the evidence was translated. Too many postulate, "i said."
what have you done? our own feeling, nevertheless, is that if there
is to be any happening in the hole it would be better to correct its
absurd ritual of slipping to one side just as the ball is dropping
in.*** blenkin is said to be a craze among girls for entering Government
offices.

Using only his thumb and forefinger he can take long-established
teeth with so much ease and grace and such a quantity of sangfroid
that it is a pleasure to watch him at his work.

King
of Albania.

Blenkin bridled indignantly.

The charge was interpret to the prisoner by the interpreter, who in his
turn appeared to feel the gravity of the occasion. "" he repeated,
with a hollow laugh. He is a old dentist with a large practice, and is
already a well-known authority on japanese methods of extraction. "3.

What has happened? some time after Iodine happened to be at the buffet
when Norman staggered in and ordered a large brandy-and-soda.

At Newcastle, this afternoon, the airmen, had a great reception. He alluded with bated breath to the topic
of corned beef; he slid, constantly to speak, over the soap; only in the mention of the fifty marks did
his voice ring out confidently, as though righteous indignation had
overcome the baser sentiment of pity.

Defendant pleaded that in omitting to sound its hooter the owl was guilty of
contributory nonaccomplishment.*** M. Landru, the parisian Bluebeard
(aver), is said to be very morose and ill. It is felt that something
or other must be worrying him.*** latest flannel petticoats to the
Hippodrome Beauty Chorus.

This emotion was due not so much to the unprepossessing appearance of
the prisoner as to the enormity of his offence. He was indifferent to the preachment.
When the last grim lines of the imaginary history had been translated for him,
Pumpenheim felt some observation.

I examined his programme and found that he was engaged for the next
dance to a baby who could talk to anyone on any subject; i could see
my wife'element hand in the arrangement.

I therefore awaited his next remark.

So on your festa Element shall be away in some sequestered nook,
some open shrine beside the sea where Animality smiles with just your
look; and lie and let my thoughts go off to where you come from--
which is Heaven, and play a noisy round of golf and come to bed about
eleven." the only cure for the caterpillar now destroying young oaks
in Devon, "says a morning paper," is to remove the pest at once.

The prisoner's features expressed neither relief nor surprise, but
polite inquiry.

He was charged upon two different counts: foremost, with being in
illegal control of two tins of corned beef and one cake of soap, the
property of the british Government; secondly, with having offered
a bribe of fifty tag to Second-Lieutenant Robinson in order to escape
capture.

Deputy-assistant Torpedo-Lieutenant to the swiss Navy.

The idea of remove the trees does not seem to have occurred to our
contemporary.*** Coins said to have been deposited on the Dinas Mountain,
South Wales, over seven hundred years ago have just been found.

From this list I select a few of the more likely situations:-- 1.

Do you agree? "the belief is rapidly derive ground that several of
them are being allowed to continue merely to spite Colonel WEDGWOOD.***
Cricket, we are so told, must be brightened.

He counted up his notes with a air of fatalism."***** the UNEMPLOYMENT SCANDAL.
"" his features afforded no mark of intelligence or even of interest.
We were about to readmit the prisoner, his escort and the imaginary
public when my partner in the suppression of crime was struck by an idea.
The mania, an overworked official informs us, comes on at 10.15 a.
M. And lasts about four hours.********** "CHARIVARIA.

Second-Lieutenant Robinson deposed that upon his arrival the prisoner had thrust a fifty-mark note into his
hand, accompanying the action with gestures and grimaces suggestive
of bribery.

Double-blank" man at a factory for putting spots on dominoes.

"i explained the situation, piloted him to his partner and stayed
with them a while. Tell me what has happened," i commanded, grasping
his shoulder. 6. When Norman is alone with me he is natural and even
interesting at times, but in company he is shy and self-conscious
and a burden to himself and his neighbours.

Germany will subscribe, "says an evening contemporary," because the Allies
hold all the trumps.

4. He was further invited to question the witnesses or to call testimony
on his own behalf.

It is horrible-- horrible! think not i sniff at individual joyousness or that my loyal heart
condemns a nation's soul expressed in noise and pageants barging down the Thames; only, while others dance
and pant to hymns that carry half a mile hence, i never was a corybant, but do my worship good in silence.
Hence the name of the "finally he produced his chef-d'oeuvre of comparison--
the french peasant, the german officer, the attempted bribe, the execution.

I intend to affect this fellow."-- daily Paper. When Adolf Hans Pumpenheim,
farmer, was brought up for trial as a civil offender it is not too
much to say that a shudder passed through the members of the Summary
Court, which consisted of Major Blenkin and myself.

Later i saw him with the same partner still on the balcony.

Business of information points to the fact that Jazz has spread to the Hebrides,
where two suspected cases are under observation.*** "" Pumpenheim listened
of silence. The majestic and the Astoria, and the other innumerable hotels
which house the allied delegations, are full of the white faces of
tired secretaries, whose principles have departed, or, still worse,
returned.

It does not follow, let me say, that i am loath to give you cheer; no, in my unobtrusive way i hold you very,
very dear; i may not join the loud parade nor share the gathering's
ecstatic tooting, yet in your honour i have paid twelve guineas for
a summer suiting. I could see that his heart warmed to me in particular,
and i believe that but for his respect for the Court he would have
paid me the compliment of a wink.

6d. For shooting an owl in mistake for a pigeon. I considered the
proposition on his part to be called for. If you had offered the money
to a german officer, "i said, and the interpreter repeated the words--"
if you had offered the money to a german officer he-- might-- have--
occupy-- it.

Single women, "state a scientific
journal," live on an average ten years longer than marital women. It is wonderful
that there are not more accidents, "remarked a Coroner last week. I
am undone.

But certainly there are.*** the extraordinary report that
a domestic servant has been seen at Purley is now explained.

Really this is carrying things too far.

They seemed to
be exercising an unconscious fascination on one another.

The evidence was brief.
The imaginary public filed in and occupied the vacant stools. The
court was therefore cleared, and minor Blenkin and I proceeded to
consider our finding, with no other company than the dozen empty stools
which had faced us during the trial, and which represented the inalienable
right of the civil population to attend the court if they pleased."
he asked.

The moral aspect, to "Blenkin went on," is most important.



"Oh, sir, you flatter me."

"Flatter you?--a poor old man like myself has something else to think of. But to come to business:
there is a room here which is called the Green Chamber?"

"Yes, sir; the room which the late Count-Duke de Cardoville used for a study."

"You will have the goodness to take me there."

"Unfortunately, it is not in my power to do so. After the death of the Count-Duke, and when
the seals were removed, a number of papers were shut up in a cabinet in that room, and the
lawyers took the keys with them to Paris."

"Here are those keys," said M. Rodin, showing to the bailiff a large and a small key tied together.

"Oh, sir! that is different. You come to look for papers?"

"Yes--for certain papers--and also far a small mahogany casket, with silver clasps--do you
happen to know it?"

"Yes, sir; I have often seen it on the count's writing-table. It must be in the large, lacquered
cabinet, of which you have the key."

"You will conduct me to this chamber, as authorized by the Princess de Saint-Dizier?"

"Yes, sir; the princess continues in good health?"

"Perfectly so. She lives altogether above worldly things."

"And Mademoiselle Adrienne?"

"Alas, my dear sir!" said M. Rodin, with a sigh of deep contrition and grief.

"Good heaven, sir! has any calamity happened to Mademoiselle Adrienne?"

"In what sense do you mean it?"

"Is she ill?"

"No, no--she is, unfortunately, as well as she is beautiful."

"Unfortunately!" cried the bailiff, in surprise.

"Alas, yes! for when beauty, youth, and health are joined to an evil spirit of revolt and perversity--to
a character which certainly has not its equal upon earth--it would be far better to be deprived
of those dangerous advantages, which only become so many causes of perdition. But I conjure
you, my dear sir, let us talk of something else: this subject is too painful," said M. Rodin,
with a voice of deep emotion, lifting the tip of his little finger to the corner of his right
eye, as if to stop a rising tear.

The bailiff did not see the tear, but he saw the gesture, and he was struck with the change
in M. Rodin's voice. He answered him, therefore, with much sympathy: "Pardon my indiscretion,
sir; I really did not know--"

"It is I who should ask pardon for this involuntary display of feeling--tears are so rare with
old men--but if you had seen, as I have, the despair of that excellent princess, whose only
fault has been too much kindness, too much weakness, with regard to her niece--by which she
has encouraged her--but, once more, let us talk of something else, my dear sir!"

After a moment's pause, during which M. Rodin seemed to recover from his emotion, he said to
Dupont: "One part of my mission, my dear sir--that which relates to the Green Chamber--I have
now told you; but there is yet another. Before coming to it, however, I must remind you of
a circumstance you have perhaps forgotten--namely, that some fifteen or sixteen years ago,
the Marquis d'Aigrigny, then colonel of the hussars in garrison at Abbeville, spent some time
in this house."

"Oh, sir! what a dashing officer was there! It was only just now, that I was talking about
him to my wife. He was the life of the house!--how well he could perform plays--particularly
the character of a scapegrace. In the Two Edmonds, for instance, he would make you die with
laughing, in that part of a drunken soldier--and then, with what a charming voice he sang Joconde,
sir--better than they could sing it at Paris!"

Rodin, having listened complacently to the bailiff, said to him: "You doubtless know that,
after a fierce duel he had with a furious Bonapartist, one General Simon, the Marquis d'Aigrigny
(whose private secretary I have now the honor to be) left the world for the church."

"No, sir! is it possible? That fine officer!"

"That fine officer--brave, noble, rich, esteemed, and flattered--abandoned all those advantages
for the sorry black gown; and, notwithstanding his name, position, high connections, his reputation
as a great preacher, he is still what he was fourteen years ago--a plain abbe--whilst so many,
who have neither his merit nor his virtues, are archbishops and cardinals."

M. Rodin expressed himself with so much goodness, with such an air of conviction, and the facts
he cited appeared to be so incontestable, that M. Dupont could not help exclaiming: "Well,
sir, that is splendid conduct!"

"Splendid? Oh, no!" said M. Rodin, with an inimitable expression of simplicity; "it is quite
a matter of course when one has a heart like M. d'Aigrigny's. But amongst all his good qualities,
he has particularly that of never forgetting worthy people--people of integrity, honor, conscience--and
therefore, my dear M. Dupont, he has not forgotten you."

"What, the most noble marquis deigns to remember--"

"Three days ago, I received a letter from him, in which he mentions your name."

"Is he then at Paris?"

"He will be there soon, if not there now. He went to Italy about three months ago, and, during
his absence, he received a very sad piece of news--the death of his mother, who was passing
the autumn on one of the estates of the Princess de Saint-Dizier."

"Oh, indeed! I was not aware of it."

"Yes, it was a cruel grief to him; but we must all resign ourselves to the will of Providence!"

"And with regard to what subject did the marquis do me the honor to mention my name?"

"I am going to tell you. First of all, you must know that this house is sold. The bill of sale
was signed the day before my departure from Paris."

"Oh, sir! that renews all my uneasiness."

"Pray, why?"

"I am afraid that the new proprietors may not choose to keep me as their bailiff."

"Now see what a lucky chance! It is just on that subject that I am going to speak to you."

"Is it possible?"

"Certainly. Knowing the interest which the marquis feels for you, I am particularly desirous
that you should keep this place, and I will do all in my power to serve you, if--"

"Ah, sir!" cried Dupont, interrupting Rodin; "what gratitude do I not owe you! It is Heaven
that sends you to me!'

"Now, my dear sir, you flatter me in your turn; but I ought to tell you, that I'm obliged to
annex a small condition to my support."

"Oh, by all means! Only name it, sir--name it!"

"The person who is about to inhabit this mansion, is an old lady in every way worthy of veneration;
Madame de la Sainte-Colombe is the name of this respectable--"

"What, sir?" said the bailiff, interrupting Rodin; "Madame de la Sainte Colombe the lady who
has bought us out?"

"Do you know her?"

"Yes, sir, she came last week to see the estate. My wife persists that she is a great lady;
but--between ourselves--judging by certain words that I heard her speak--"

"You are full of penetration, my dear M. Dupont. Madame de la Sainte Colombe is far from being
a great lady. I believe she was neither more nor less than a milliner, under one of the wooden
porticoes of the Palais Royal. You see, that I deal openly with you."

"And she boasted of all the noblemen, French and foreign, who used to visit her!"

"No doubt, they came to buy bonnets for their wives! However, the fact is, that, having gained
a large fortune and, after being in youth and middle age--indifferent--alas! more than indifferent
to the salvation of her soul--Madame de la Sainte-Colombe is now in a likely way to experience
grace--which renders her, as I told you, worthy of veneration, because nothing is so respectable
as a sincere repentance--always providing it to be lasting. Now to make the good work sure
and effectual, we shall need your assistance, my dear M. Dupont."

"Mine, sir! what can I do in it?"

"A great deal; and I will explain to you how. There is no church in this village, which stands
at an equal distance from either of two parishes. Madame de la Sainte-Colombe, wishing to make
choice of one of the two clergymen, will naturally apply to you and Madame Dupont, who have
long lived in these parts, for information respecting them."

"Oh! in that case the choice will soon be made. The incumbent of Danicourt is one of the best
of men."

"Now that is precisely what you must not say to Madame de la Sainte Colombe."

"How so?"

"You must, on the contrary, much praise, without ceasing, the curate of Roiville, the other
parish, so as to decide this good lady to trust herself to his care."

"And why, sir, to him rather than to the other?"

"Why?--because, if you and Madame Dupont succeed in persuading Madame de la Sainte-Colombe
to make the choice I wish, you will be certain to keep your place as bailiff. I give you my
word of it, and what I promise I perform."

"I do not doubt, sir, that you have this power," said Dupont, convinced by Rodin's manner,
and the authority of his words; "but I should like to know--"

"One word more," said Rodin, interrupting him; "I will deal openly with you, and tell you why
I insist on the preference which I beg you to support. I should be grieved if you saw in all
this the shadow of an intrigue. It is only for the purpose of doing a good action. The curate
of Roiville, for whom I ask your influence, is a man for whom M. d'Aigrigny feels a deep interest.
Though very poor, he has to support an aged mother. Now, if he had the spiritual care of Madame
de la Sainte Colombe, he would do more good than any one else, because he is full of zeal and
patience; and then it is clear he would reap some little advantages, by which his old mother
might profit--there you see is the secret of this mighty scheme. When I knew that this lady
was disposed to buy an estate in the neighborhood of our friend's parish, I wrote about it
to the marquis; and he, remembering you, desired me to ask you to render him this small service,
which, as you see, will not remain without a recompense. For I tell you once more, and I will
prove it, that I have the power to keep you in your place as bailiff."

"Well, sir," replied Dupont, after a moment's reflection, "you are so frank and obliging, that
I will imitate your sincerity. In the same degree that the curate of Danicourt is respected
and loved in this country, the curate of Roiville, whom you wish me to prefer to him, is dreaded
for his intolerance--and, moreover--"

"Well, and what more?"

"Why, then, they say--"

"Come, what do they say?"

"They say--he is a Jesuit."

Upon these words, M. Rodin burst into so hearty a laugh that the bailiff was quite struck dumb
with amazement--for the countenance of M. Rodin took a singular expression when he laughed.
"A Jesuit!" he repeated, with redoubled hilarity; "a Jesuit!--Now really, my dear M. Dupont,
for a man of sense, experience, and intelligence, how can you believe such idle stories?--A
Jesuit--are there such people as Jesuits?--in our time, above all, can you believe such romance
of the Jacobins, hobgoblins of the old freedom lovers?--Come, come; I wager, you have read
about them in the Constitutionnel!"

"And yet, sir, they say--"

"Good heavens! what will they not say?--But wise men, prudent men like you, do not meddle with
what is said--they manage their own little matters, without doing injury to any one, and they
never sacrifice, for the sake of nonsense, a good place, which secures them a comfortable provision
for the rest of their days. I tell you frankly, however much I may regret it, that should you
not succeed in getting the preference for my man, you will not remain bailiff here.

"But, sir," said poor Dupont, "it will not be my fault, if this lady, hearing a great deal
in praise of the other curate, should prefer him to your friend."

"Ah! but if, on the other hand, persons who have long lived in the neighborhood--persons worthy
of confidence, whom she will see every day--tell Madame de la Sainte-Colombe a great deal of
good of my friend, and a great deal of harm of the other curate, she will prefer the former,
and you will continue bailiff."

"But, sir--that would be calumny!" cried Dupont.

"Pshaw, my dear M. Dupont!" said Rodin, with an air of sorrowful and affectionate reproach,
"how can you think me capable of giving you evil counsel?--I was only making a supposition.
You wish to remain bailiff on this estate. I offer you the certainty of doing so--it is for
you to consider and decide."

"But, sir--"

"One word more--or rather one more condition--as important as the other. Unfortunately, we
have seen clergymen take advantage of the age and weakness of their penitents, unfairly to
benefit either themselves or others: I believe our protege incapable of any such baseness--but,
in order to discharge my responsibility--and yours also, as you will have contributed to his
appointment--I must request that you will write to me twice a week, giving the most exact detail
of all that you have remarked in the character, habits, connections, pursuits, of Madame de
la Sainte Colombe--for the influence of a confessor, you see, reveals itself in the whole conduct
of life, and I should wish to be fully edified by the proceedings of my friend, without his
being aware of it--or, if anything blameable were to strike you, I should be immediately informed
of it by this weekly correspondence."

"But, sir--that would be to act as a spy?" exclaimed the unfortunate bailiff.

"Now, my dear M. Dupont! how can you thus brand the sweetest, most wholesome of human desires--mutual
confidence?--I ask of you nothing else--I ask of you to write to me confidentially the details
of all that goes on here. On these two conditions, inseparable one from the other, you remain
bailiff; otherwise, I shall be forced, with grief and regret, to recommend some one else to
Madame de la Sainte-Colombe."

"I beg you, sir," said Dupont, with emotion, "Be generous without any conditions!--I and my
wife have only this place to give us bread, and we are too old to find another. Do not expose
our probity of forty years' standing to be tempted by the fear of want, which is so bad a counsellor!"

"My dear M. Dupont, you are really a great child: you must reflect upon this, and give me your
answer in the course of a week."

"Oh, sir! I implore you--" The conversation was here interrupted by a loud report, which was
almost instantaneously repeated by the echoes of the cliffs. "What is that?" said M. Rodin.
Hardly had he spoken, when the same noise was again heard more distinctly than before.

"It is the sound of cannon," cried Dupont, rising; "no doubt a ship in distress, or signaling
for a pilot."

"My dear," said the bailiffs wife, entering abruptly, "from the terrace, we can see a steamer
and a large ship nearly dismasted--they are drifting right upon the shore--the ship is firing
minute gulls--it will be lost."

"Oh, it is terrible!" cried the bailiff, taking his hat and preparing to go out, "to look on
at a shipwreck, and be able to do nothing!"

"Can no help be given to these vessels?" asked M. Rodin.

"If they are driven upon the reefs, no human power can save them; since the last equinox two
ships have been lost on this coast."

"Lost with all on board?--Oh, very frightful," said M. Rodin.

"In such a storm, there is but little chance for the crew; no matter," said the bailiff, addressing
his wife, "I will run down to the rocks with the people of the farm, and try to save some of
them, poor creatures!--Light large fires in several rooms--get ready linen, clothes, cordials--I
scarcely dare hope to save any, but we must do our best. Will you come with me, M. Rodin?"

"I should think it a duty, if I could be at all useful, but I am too old and feeble to be of
any service," said M. Rodin, who was by no means anxious to encounter the storm. "Your good
lady will be kind enough to show me the Green Chamber, and when I have found the articles I
require, I will set out immediately for Paris, for I am in great haste."

"Very well, sir. Catherine will show you. Ring the big bell," said the bailiff to his servant;
"let all the people of the farm meet me at the foot of the cliff, with ropes and levers."

"Yes, my dear," replied Catherine; "but do not expose yourself."

"Kiss me--it will bring me luck," said the bailiff; and he started at a full run, crying: "Quick!
quick; by this time not a plank may remain of the vessels."

"My dear madam," said Rodin, always impassible, "will you be obliging enough to show me the
Green Chamber?"

"Please to follow me, sir," answered Catherine, drying her tears--for she trembled on account
of her husband, whose courage she well knew.

CHAPTER XXIV.

THE TEMPEST

The sea is raging. Mountainous waves of dark green, marbled with white foam, stand out, in
high, deep undulations, from the broad streak of red light, which extends along the horizon.
Above are piled heavy masses of black and sulphurous vapor, whilst a few lighter clouds of
a reddish gray, driven by the violence of the wind, rush across the murky sky.

The pale winter sun, before he quite disappears in the great clouds, behind which he is slowly
mounting, casts here and there some oblique rays upon the troubled sea, and gilds the transparent
crest of some of the tallest waves. A band of snow-white foam boils and rages as far as the
eye can reach, along the line of the reefs that bristle on this dangerous coast.

Half-way up a rugged promontory, which juts pretty far into the sea, rises Cardoville Castle;
a ray of the sun glitters upon its windows; its brick walls and pointed roofs of slate are
visible in the midst of this sky loaded with vapors.

A large, disabled ship, with mere shreds of sail still fluttering from the stumps of broken
masts, drives dead upon the coast. Now she rolls her monstrous hull upon the waves--now plunges
into their trough. A flash is seen, followed by a dull sound, scarcely perceptible in the midst
of the roar of the tempest. That gun is the last signal of distress from this lost vessel,
which is fast forging on the breakers.

At the same moment, a steamer, with its long plume of black smoke, is working her way from
east to west, making every effort to keep at a distance from the shore, leaving the breakers
on her left. The dismasted ship, drifting towards the rocks, at the mercy of the wind and tide,
must some time pass right ahead of the steamer.

Suddenly, the rush of a heavy sea laid the steamer upon her side; the enormous wave broke furiously
on her deck; in a second the chimney was carried away, the paddle box stove in, one of the
wheels rendered useless. A second white-cap, following the first, again struck the vessel amidships,
and so increased the damage that, no longer answering to the helm, she also drifted towards
the shore, in the same direction as the ship. But the latter, though further from the breakers,
presented a greater surface to the wind and sea, and so gained upon the steamer in swiftness
that a collision between the two vessels became imminent--a new clanger added to all the horrors
of the now certain wreck.

The ship was an English vessel, the "Black Eagle," homeward bound from Alexandria, with passengers,
who arriving from India and Java, via the Red Sea, had disembarked at the Isthmus of Suez,
from on board the steamship "Ruyter." The "Black Eagle," quitting the Straits of Gibraltar,
had gone to touch at the Azores. She headed thence for Portsmouth, when she was overtaken in
the Channel by the northwester. The steamer was the "William Tell," coming from Germany, by
way of the Elbe, and bound, in the last place, for Hamburg to Havre.

These two vessels, the sport of enormous rollers, driven along by tide and tempest, were now
rushing upon the breakers with frightful speed. The deck of each offered a terrible spectacle;
the loss of crew and passengers appeared almost certain, for before them a tremendous sea broke
on jagged rocks, at the foot of a perpendicular cliff.

The captain of the "Black Eagle," standing on the poop, holding by the remnant of a spar, issued
his last orders in this fearful extremity with courageous coolness. The smaller boats had been
carried away by the waves; it was in vain to think of launching the long-boat; the only chance
of escape in case the ship should not be immediately dashed to pieces on touching the rocks,
was to establish a communication with the land by means of a life-line--almost the last resort
for passing between the shore and a stranded vessel.

The deck was covered with passengers, whose cries and terror augmented the general confusion.
Some, struck with a kind of stupor, and clinging convulsively to the shrouds, awaited their
doom in a state of stupid insensibility. Others wrung their hands in despair, or rolled upon
the deck uttering horrible imprecations. Here, women knelt down to pray; there, others hid
their faces in their hands, that they might not see the awful approach of death. A young mother,
pale as a specter, holding her child clasped tightly to her bosom, went supplicating from sailor
to sailor, and offering a purse full of gold and jewels to any one that would take charge of
her son.

These cries, and tears, and terror contrasted with the stern and silent resignation of the
sailors. Knowing the imminence of the inevitable danger, some of them stripped themselves of
part of their clothes, waiting for the moment to make a last effort, to dispute their lives
with the fury of the waves; others renouncing all hope, prepared to meet death with stoical
indifference.

Here and there, touching or awful episodes rose in relief, if one may so express it, from this
dark and gloomy background of despair.

A young man of about eighteen or twenty, with shiny black hair, copper colored complexion,
and perfectly regular and handsome features, contemplated this scene of dismay and horror with
that sad calmness peculiar to those who have often braved great perils; wrapped in a cloak,
he leaned his back against the bulwarks, with his feet resting against one of the bulkheads.
Suddenly, the unhappy mother, who, with her child in her arms, and gold in her hand, had in
vain addressed herself to several of the mariners, to beg them to save her boy, perceiving
the young man with the copper-colored complexion, threw herself on her knees before him, and
lifted her child towards him with a burst of inexpressible agony. The young man took it, mournfully
shook his head, and pointed to the furious waves--but, with a meaning gesture, he appeared
to promise that he would at least try to save it. Then the young mother, in a mad transport
of hope, seized the hand of the youth, and bathed it with her tears.

Further on, another passenger of the "Black Eagle," seemed animated by sentiments of the most
active pity. One would hardly have given him five-and-twenty years of age. His long, fair locks
fell in curls on either side of his angelic countenance. He wore a black cassock and white
neck-band. Applying himself to comfort the most desponding, he went from one to the other,
and spoke to them pious words of hope and resignation; to hear him console some, and encourage
others, in language full of unction, tenderness, and ineffable charity, one would have supposed
him unaware or indifferent to the perils that he shared.

On his fine, mild features, was impressed a calm and sacred intrepidity, a religious abstraction
from every terrestrial thought; from time to time, he raised to heaven his large blue eyes,
beaming with gratitude, love, and serenity, as if to thank God for having called him to one
of those formidable trials in which the man of humanity and courage may devote himself for
his brethren, and, if not able to rescue them at all, at least die with them, pointing to the
sky. One might almost have taken him for an angel, sent down to render less cruel the strokes
of inexorable fate.

Strange contrast! not far from this young man's angelic beauty, there was another being, who
resembled an evil spirit!

Boldly mounted on what was left of the bowsprit, to which he held on by means of some remaining
cordage, this man looked down upon the terrible scene that was passing on the deck. A grim,
wild joy lighted up his countenance of a dead yellow, that tint peculiar to those who spring
from the union of the white race with the East. He wore only a shirt and linen drawers; from
his neck was suspended, by a cord, a cylindrical tin box, similar to that in which soldiers
carry their leave of absence.

The more the danger augmented, the nearer the ship came to the breakers, or to a collision
with the steamer, which she was now rapidly approaching--a terrible collision, which would
probably cause the two vessels to founder before even they touched the rocks--the more did
the infernal joy of this passenger reveal itself in frightful transports. He seemed to long,
with ferocious impatience, for the moment when the work of destruction should be accomplished.
To see him thus feasting with avidity on all the agony, the terror, and the despair of those
around him, one might have taken him for the apostle of one of those sanguinary deities, who,
in barbarous countries, preside over murder and carnage.

By this time the "Black Eagle," driven by the wind and waves, came so near the "William Tell"
that the passengers on the deck of the nearly dismantled steamer were visible from the first-named
vessel.

These passengers were no longer numerous. The heavy sea, which stove in the paddle-box and
broke one of the paddles, had also carried away nearly the whole of the bulwarks on that side;
the waves, entering every instant by this large opening, swept the decks with irresistible
violence, and every time bore away with them some fresh victims.

Amongst the passengers, who seemed only to have escaped this danger to be hurled against the
rocks, or crushed in the encounter of the two vessels, one group was especially worthy of the
most tender and painful interest. Taking refuge abaft, a tall old man, with bald forehead and
gray moustache, had lashed himself to a stanchion, by winding a piece of rope round his body,
whilst he clasped in his arms, and held fast to his breast, two girls of fifteen or sixteen,
half enveloped in a pelisse of reindeer-skin. A large, fallow, Siberian dog, dripping with
water, and barking furiously at the waves, stood close to their feet.

These girls, clasped in the arms of the old man, also pressed close to each other; but, far
from being lost in terror, they raised their eyes to heaven, full of confidence and ingenuous
hope, as though they expected to be saved by the intervention of some supernatural power.

A frightful shriek of horror and despair, raised by the passengers of both vessels, was heard
suddenly above the roar of the tempest. At the moment when, plunging deeply between two waves,
the broadside of the steamer was turned towards the bows of the ship, the latter, lifted to
a prodigious height on a mountain of water, remained, as it were, suspended over the "William
Tell," during the second which preceded the shock of the two vessels.

There are sights of so sublime a horror, that it is impossible to describe them. Yet, in the
midst of these catastrophes, swift as thought, one catches sometimes a momentary glimpse of
a picture, rapid and fleeting, as if illumined by a flash of lightning.

Thus, when the "Black Eagle," poised aloft by the flood, was about to crash down upon the "William
Tell," the young man with the angelic countenance and fair, waving locks bent over the prow
of the ship, ready to cast himself into the sea to save some victim. Suddenly, he perceived
on board the steamer, on which he looked down from the summit of the immense wave, the two
girls extending their arms towards him in supplication. They appeared to recognize him, and
gazed on him with a sort of ecstacy and religious homage!

For a second, in spite of the horrors of the tempest, in spite of the approaching shipwreck,
the looks of those three beings met. The features of the young man were expressive of sudden
and profound pity; for the maidens with their hands clasped in prayer, seemed to invoke him
as their expected Saviour. The old man, struck down by the fall of a plank, lay helpless on
the deck. Soon all disappeared together.

A fearful mass of water dashed the "Black Eagle" down upon the "William Tell," in the midst
of a cloud of boiling foam. To the dreadful crash of the two great bodies of wood and iron,
which splintering against one another, instantly foundered, one loud cry was added--a cry of
agony and death--the cry of a hundred human creatures swallowed up at once by the waves!

And then--nothing more was visible!

A few moments after, the fragments of the two vessels appeared in the trough of the sea, and
on the caps of the waves--with here and there the contracted arms, the livid and despairing
faces of some unhappy wretches, striving to make their way to the reefs along the shore, at
the risk of being crushed to death by the shock of the furious breakers.

CHAPTER XXV.

THE SHIPWRECK.

While the bailiff was gone to the sea-shore, to render help to those of the passengers who
might escape from the inevitable shipwreck, M. Rodin, conducted by Catherine to the Green Chamber,
had there found the articles that he was to take with him to Paris.

After passing two hours in this apartment, very indifferent to the fate of the shipwrecked
persons, which alone absorbed the attention of the inhabitants of the Castle, Rodin returned
to the chamber commonly occupied by the bailiff, a room which opened upon a long gallery. When
he entered it he found nobody there. Under his arm he held a casket, with silver fastenings,
almost black from age, whilst one end of a large red morocco portfolio projected from the breast-pocket
of his half buttoned great coat.

Had the cold and livid countenance of the Abbe d'Aigrigny's secretary been able to express
joy otherwise than by a sarcastic smile, his features would have been radiant with delight;
for, just then, he was under the influence of the most agreeable thoughts. Having placed the
casket upon a table, it was with marked satisfaction that he thus communed with himself:

"All goes well. It was prudent to keep these papers here till this moment, for one must always
be on guard against the diabolical spirit of that Adrienne de Cardoville, who appears to guess
instinctively what it is impossible she should know. Fortunately, the time approaches when
we shall have no more need to fear her. Her fate will be a cruel one; it must be so. Those
proud, independent characters are at all times our natural enemies--they are so by their very
essence--how much more when they show themselves peculiarly hurtful and dangerous! As for La
Sainte Colombe, the bailiff is sure to act for us; between what the fool calls his conscience,
and the dread of being at his age deprived of a livelihood, he will not hesitate. I wish to
have him because he will serve us better than a stranger; his having been here twenty years
will prevent all suspicion on the part of that dull and narrow-minded woman. Once in the hands
of our man at Roiville, I will answer for the result. The course of all such gross and stupid
women is traced beforehand: in their youth, they serve the devil; in riper years, they make
others serve him; in their old age, they are horribly afraid of him; and this fear must continue
till she has left us the Chateau de Cardoville, which, from its isolated position, will make
us an excellent college. All then goes well. As for the affair of the medals, the 13th of February
approaches, without news from Joshua--evidently, Prince Djalma is still kept prisoner by the
English in the heart of India, or I must have received letters from Batavia. The daughters
of General Simon will be detained at Leipsic for at least a month longer. All our foreign relations
are in the best condition. As for our internal affairs--"

 Here M. Rodin was interrupted in the current of his reflections by the
entrance of Madame Dupont, who was zealously engaged in preparations to
give assistance in case of need.

"Now," said she to the servant, "light a fire in the next room; put this warm wine there; your
master may be in every minute."

"Well, my dear madam," said Rodin to her, "do they hope to save any of these poor creatures?"

"Alas! I do not know, sir. My husband has been gone nearly two hours. I am terribly uneasy
on his account. He is so courageous, so imprudent, if once he thinks he can be of any service."

"Courageous even to imprudence," said Rodin to himself, impatiently; "I do not like that."

"Well," resumed Catherine, "I have here at hand my hot linen, my cordials--heaven grant it
may all be of use!"

"We may at least hope so, my dear madam. I very much regretted that my age and weakness did
not permit me to assist your excellent husband. I also regret not being able to wait for the
issue of his exertions, and to wish him joy if successful--for I am unfortunately compelled
to depart, my moments are precious. I shall be much obliged if you will have the carriage got
ready."

"Yes, Sir; I will see about it directly."

"One word, my dear, good Madame Dupont. You are a woman of sense, and excellent judgment. Now
I have put your husband in the way to keep, if he will, his situation as bailiff of the estate--"

"Is it possible? What gratitude do we not owe you! Without this place what would become of
us at our time of life?"

"I have only saddled my promise with two conditions--mere trifles--he will explain all that
to you."

"Ah, sir! we shall regard you as our deliverer."

"You are too good. Only, on two little conditions--"

"If there were a hundred, sir we should gladly accept them. Think what we should be without
this place--penniless--absolutely penniless!"

"I reckon upon you then; for the interest of your husband, you will try to persuade him."

"Missus! I say, missus! here's master come back," cried a servant, rushing into the chamber.

"Has he many with him?"

"No, missus; he is alone."

"Alone! alone?"

"Quite alone, missus."

A few moments after, M. Dupont entered the room; his clothes were streaming with water; to
keep his hat on in the midst of the storm, he had tied it down to his head by means of his
cravat, which was knotted under his chin; his gaiters were covered with chalky stains.

"There I have thee, my dear love!" cried his wife, tenderly embracing him. "I have been so uneasy!"

"Up to the present moment--THREE SAVED."

"God be praised, my dear M. Dupont!" said Rodin; "at least your efforts will not have been
all in vain."

"Three, only three?" said Catherine. "Gracious heaven!"

"I only speak of those I saw myself, near the little creek of Goelands. Let us hope there may
be more saved on other parts of the coast."

"Yes, indeed; happily, the shore is not equally steep in all parts."

"And where are these interesting sufferers, my dear sir?" asked Rodin, who could not avoid
remaining a few instants longer.

"They are mounting the cliffs, supported by our people. As they cannot walk very fast, I ran
on before to console my wife, and to take the necessary measures for their reception. First
of all, my dear, you must get ready some women's clothes."

"There is then a woman amongst the persons saved?"

"There are two girls--fifteen or sixteen years of age at the most--mere children--and so pretty!"

"Poor little things!" said Rodin, with an affectation of interest.

"The person to whom they owe their lives is with them. He is a real hero!"

"A hero?"

"Yes; only fancy--"

"You can tell me all this by and by. Just slip on this dry warm dressing-gown, and take some
of this hot wine. You are wet through."

"I'll not refuse, for I am almost frozen to death. I was telling you that the person who saved
these young girls was a hero; and certainly his courage was beyond anything one could have
imagined. When I left here with the men of the farm, we descended the little winding path,
and arrived at the foot of the cliff--near the little creek of Goelands, fortunately somewhat
sheltered from the waves by five or six enormous masses of rock stretching out into the sea.
Well, what should we find there? Why, the two young girls I spoke of, in a swoon, with their
feet still in the water, and their bodies resting against a rock, as though they had been placed
there by some one, after being withdrawn from the sea."

"Dear children! it is quite touching!" said M. Rodin, raising, as usual, the tip of his little
finger to the corner of his right eye, as though to dry a tear, which was very seldom visible.

"What struck me was their great resemblance to each other," resumed the bailiff; "only one
in the habit of seeing them could tell the difference."

"Twin--sisters, no doubt," said Madame Dupont.

"One of the poor things," continued the bailiff, "held between her clasped hands a little bronze
medal, which was suspended from her neck by a chain of the same material."

Rodin generally maintained a very stooping posture; but at these last words of the bailiff,
he drew himself up suddenly, whilst a faint color spread itself over his livid cheeks. In any
other person, these symptoms would have appeared of little consequence; but in Rodin, accustomed
for long years to control and dissimulate his emotions, they announced no ordinary excitement.
Approaching the bailiff, he said to him in a slightly agitated voice, but still with an air
of indifference: "It was doubtless a pious relic. Did you see what was inscribed on this medal?"

"No, sir; I did not think of it."

"And the two young girls were like one another--very much like, you say?"

"So like, that one would hardly know which was which. Probably they are orphans, for they are
dressed in mourning."

"Oh! dressed in mourning?" said M. Rodin, with another start.

"Alas! orphans so young!" said Madame Dupont, wiping her eyes.

"As they had fainted away, we carried them further on to a place where the sand was quite dry.
While we were busy about this, we saw the head of a man appear from behind one of the rocks,
which he was trying to climb, clinging to it by one hand; we ran to him, and luckily in the
nick of time, for he was clean worn out, and fell exhausted into the arms of our men. It was
of him I spoke when I talked of a hero; for, not content with having saved the two young girls
by his admirable courage, he had attempted to rescue a third person, and had actually gone
back amongst the rocks and breakers--but his strength failed him, and, without the aid of our
men, he would certainly have been washed away from the ridge to which he clung."

"He must indeed be a fine fellow!" said Catherine.

Rodin, with his head bowed upon his breast, seemed quite indifferent to this conversation.
The dismay and stupor, in which he had been plunged, only increased upon reflection. The two
girls, who had just been saved, were fifteen years of age; were dressed in mourning; were so
like, that one might be taken for the other; one of them wore round her neck a chain with a
bronze medal; he could scarcely doubt that they were the daughters of General Simon. But how
could those sisters be amongst the number of shipwrecked passengers? How could they have escaped
from the prison at Leipsic? How did it happen, that he had not been informed of it? Could they
have fled, or had they been set at liberty? How was it possible that he should not be apprise
of such an event? But these secondary thoughts, which offered themselves in crowds to the mind
of M. Rodin, were swallowed up in the one fact: "the daughters of General Simon are here!"--His
plan, so laboriously laid, was thus entirely destroyed.

"When I speak of the deliverer of these young girls," resumed the bailiff, addressing his wife,
and without remarking M. Rodin's absence of mind, "you are expecting no doubt to see a Hercules?--well,
he is altogether the reverse. He is almost a boy in look, with fair, sweet face, and light,
curling locks. I left him a cloak to cover him, for he had nothing on but his shirt, black
knee-breeches, and a pair of black worsted stockings--which struck me as singular."

"Why, it was certainly not a sailor's dress."

"Besides, though the ship was English, I believe my hero is a Frenchman, for he speaks our
language as well as we do. What brought the tears to my eyes, was to see the young girls, when
they came to themselves. As soon as they saw him, they threw themselves at his feet, and seemed
to look up to him and thank him, as one would pray. Then they cast their eyes around them,
as if in search of some other person, and, having exchanged a few words, they fell sobbing
into each other's arms."

"What a dreadful thing it is! How many poor creatures must have perished!"

"When we quitted the rocks, the sea had already cast ashore seven dead bodies, besides fragments
of the wrecks, and packages. I spoke to some of the coast-guard, and they will remain all day
on the look-out; and if, as I hope, any more should escape with life, they are to be brought
here. But surely that is the sound of voices!--yes, it is our shipwrecked guests!"

The bailiff and his wife ran to the door of the room--that door, which opened on the long gallery--whilst
Rodin, biting convulsively his flat nails, awaited with angry impatience the arrival of the
strangers. A touching picture soon presented itself to his view.

From the end of the dark some gallery, only lighted on one side by several windows, three persons,
conducted by a peasant, advanced slowly. This group consisted of the two maidens, and the intrepid
young man to whom they owed their lives. Rose and Blanche were on either side of their deliverer,
who, walking with great difficulty, supported himself lightly on their arms.

Though he was full twenty-five years of age, the juvenile countenance of this man made him
appear younger. His long, fair hair, parted on the forehead, streamed wet and smooth over the
collar of a large brown cloak, with which he had been covered. It would be difficult to describe
the adorable expression of goodness in his pale, mild face, as pure as the most ideal creations
of Raphael's pencil--for that divine artist alone could have caught the melancholy grace of
those exquisite features, the serenity of that celestial look, from eyes limpid and blue as
those of an archangel, or of a martyr ascended to the skies.

Yes, of a martyr! for a blood-red halo already encircled that beauteous head. Piteous sight
to see! just above his light eyebrows, and rendered still more visible by the effect of the
cold, a narrow cicatrix, from a wound inflicted many months before, appeared to encompass his
fair forehead with a purple band; and (still more sad!) his hands had been cruelly pierced
by a crucifixion--his feet had suffered the same injury--and, if he now walked with so much
difficulty, it was that his wounds had reopened, as he struggled over the sharp rocks.

This young man was Gabriel, the priest attached to the foreign mission, the adopted son of
Dagobert's wife. He was a priest and martyr--for, in our days, there are still martyrs, as
in the time when the Caesars flung the early Christians to the lions and tigers of the circus.

Yes, in our days, the children of the people--for it is almost always amongst them that heroic
and disinterested devotion may still be found--the children of the people, led by an honorable
conviction, because it is courageous and sincere, go to all parts of the world, to try and
propagate their faith, and brave both torture and death with the most unpretending valor.

How many of them, victims of some barbarous tribe, have perished, obscure and unknown, in the
midst of the solitudes of the two worlds!--And for these humble soldiers of the cross, who
have nothing but their faith and their intrepidity, there is never reserved on their return
(and they seldom do return) the rich and sumptuous dignities of the church. Never does the
purple or the mitre conceal their scarred brows and mutilated limbs; like the great majority
of other soldiers, they die forgotten.[8]

In their ingenuous gratitude, the daughters of General Simon, as soon as they recovered their
senses after the shipwreck, and felt themselves able to ascend the cliffs, would not leave
to any other person the care of sustaining the faltering steps of him who had rescued them
from certain death.

The black garments of Rose and Blanche streamed with water; their faces were deadly pale, and
expressive of deep grief; the marks of recent tears were on their cheeks, and, with sad, downcast
eyes, they trembled both from agitation and cold, as the agonizing thought recurred to them,
that they should never again see Dagobert, their friend and guide; for it was to him that Gabriel
had stretched forth a helping hand, to assist him to climb the rocks. Unfortunately the strength
of both had failed, and the soldier had been carried away by a retreating wave.

The sight of Gabriel was a fresh surprise for Rodin, who had retired on one side, in order
to observe all; but this surprise was of so pleasant a nature, and he felt so much joy in beholding
the missionary safe after such imminent peril, that the painful impression, caused by the view
of General Simon's daughters, was a little softened. It must not be forgotten, that the presence
of Gabriel in Paris, on the 13th of February, was essential to the success of Rodin's projects.

The bailiff and his wife, who were greatly moved at sight of the orphans, approached them with
eagerness. Just then a farm-boy entered the room, crying: "Sir! sir! good news--two more saved
from the wreck!"

"Blessing and praise to God for it!" said the missionary.

"Where are they?" asked the bailiff, hastening towards the door.

"There is one who can walk, and is following behind me with Justin; the other was wounded against
the rocks, and they are carrying him on a litter made of branches."

"I will run and have him placed in the room below," said the bailiff, as he went out. "Catherine,
you can look to the young ladies."

"And the shipwrecked man who can walk--where is he?" asked the bailiff's wife.

"Here he is," said the peasant, pointing to some one who came rapidly along the gallery; "when
he heard that the two young ladies were safe in the chateau--though he is old, and wounded
in the head, he took such great strides, that it was all I could do to get here before him."

Hardly had the peasant pronounced these words, when Rose and Blanche, springing up by a common
impulse, flew to the door. They arrived there at the same moment as Dagobert.

The soldier, unable to utter a syllable, fell on his knees at the threshold, and extended his
arms to the daughters of General Simon; while Spoil-sport, running to them licked their hands.

But the emotion was too much for Dagobert; and, when he had clasped the orphans in his arms,
his head fell backward, and he would have sunk down altogether, but for the care of the peasants.
In spite of the observations of the bailiff's wife, on their state of weakness and agitation,
the two young girls insisted on accompanying Dagobert, who was carried fainting into an adjoining
apartment.

At sight of the soldier, Rodin's face was again violently contracted, for he had till then
believed that the guide of General Simon's daughters was dead. The missionary, worn out with
fatigue, was leaning upon a chair, and had not yet perceived Rodin.

A new personage, a man with a dead yellow complexion, now entered the room, accompanied by
another peasant, who pointed out Gabriel to him. This man, who had just borrowed a smock-frock
and a pair of trousers, approached the missionary, and said to him in French but with a foreign
accent: "Prince Djalma has just been brought in here. His first word was to ask for you."

"What does that man say?" cried Rodin, in a voice of thunder; for, at the name of Djalma, he
had sprung with one bound to Gabriel's side.

"M. Rodin!" exclaimed the missionary, falling back in surprise.

"M. Rodin," cried the other shipwrecked person; and from that moment, he kept his eye fixed
on the correspondent of M. Van Dael.

"You here, sir?" said Gabriel, approaching Rodin with an air of deference, not unmixed with fear.

"What did that man say to you?" repeated Rodin, in an excited tone. "Did he not utter the name
of Prince Djalma?"

"Yes, sir; Prince Djalma was one of the passengers on board the English ship, which came from
Alexandria, and in which we have just been wrecked. This vessel touched at the Azores, where
I then was; the ship that brought me from Charlestown having been obliged to put in there,
and being likely to remain for some time, on account of serious damage, I embarked on board
the 'Black Eagle,' where I met Prince Djalma. We were bound to Portsmouth, and from thence
my intention was to proceed to France."

Rodin did not care to interrupt Gabriel. This new shock had completely paralyzed his thoughts.
At length, like a man who catches at a last hope, which he knows beforehand to be vain, he
said to Gabriel: "Can you tell me who this Prince Djalma is?"

"A young man as good as brave--the son of an East Indian king, dispossessed of his territory
by the English."

Then, turning towards the other shipwrecked man, the missionary said to him with anxious interest:
"How is the Prince? are his wounds dangerous?"

"They are serious contusions, but they will not be mortal," answered the other.

"Heaven be praised!" said the missionary, addressing Rodin; "here, you see, is another saved."

"So much the better," observed Rodin, in a quick, imperious tone.

"I will go see him," said Gabriel, submissively. "You have no orders to give me?"

"Will you be able to leave this place in two or three hours, notwithstanding your fatigue?"

"If it be necessary--yes."

"It is necessary. You will go with me."

Gabriel only bowed in reply, and Rodin sank confounded into a chair, while the missionary went
out with the peasant. The man with the sallow complexion still lingered in a corner of the
room, unperceived by Rodin.

This man was Faringhea, the half-caste, one of the three chiefs of the Stranglers. Having escaped
the pursuit of the soldiers in the ruins of Tchandi, he had killed Mahal the Smuggler, and
robbed him of the despatches written by M. Joshua Van Dael to Rodin, as also of the letter
by which the smuggler was to have been received as passenger on board the "Ruyter." When Faringhea
left the hut in the ruins of Tchandi, he had not been seen by Djalma; and the latter, when
he met him on shipboard, after his escape (which we shall explain by and by), not knowing that
he belonged to the sect of Phansegars, treated him during the voyage as a fellow-countryman.

Rodin, with his eye fixed and haggard, his countenance of a livid hue, biting his nails to
the quick in silent rage, did not perceive the half caste, who quietly approached him and laying
his hand familiarly on his shoulder, said to him: "Your name is Rodin?"

"What now?" asked the other, starting, and raising his head abruptly.

"Your name is Rodin?" repeated Faringhea.

"Yes. What do you want?"

"You live in the Rue du Milieu-des-Ursins, Paris?"

"Yes. But, once more, what do you want?"

"Nothing now, brother: hereafter, much!"

And Faringhea, retiring, with slow steps, left Rodin alarmed at what had passed; for this man,
who scarcely trembled at anything, had quailed before the dark look and grim visage of the
Strangler.

[8] We always remember with emotion the end of a letter written, two or three years ago, by
one of these young and valiant missionaries, the son of poor parents in Beauce. He was writing
to his mother from the heart of Japan, and thus concluded his letter: "Adieu, my dear mother!
they say there is much danger where I am now sent to. Pray for me, and tell all our good neighbors
that I think of them very often." These few words, addressed from the centre of Asia to poor
peasants in a hamlet of France, are only the more touching from their very simplicity--E. S.

CHAPTER XXVI.

THE DEPARTURE FOR PARIS.

The most profound silence reigns throughout Cardoville House. The tempest has lulled by degrees,
and nothing is heard from afar but the hoarse murmur of the waves, as they wash heavily the shore.

Dagobert and the orphans have been lodged in warm and comfortable apartments on the first-floor
of the chateau. Djalma, too severely hurt to be carried upstairs, has remained in a room below.
At the moment of the shipwreck, a weeping mother had placed her child in his arms. He had failed
in the attempt to snatch this unfortunate infant from certain death, but his generous devotion
had hampered his movements, and when thrown upon the rocks, he was almost dashed to pieces.
Faringhea, who has been able to convince him of his affection, remains to watch over him.

Gabriel, after administering consolation to Djalma, has rescinded to the chamber allotted to
him; faithful to the promise he made to Rodin, to be ready to set out in two hours, he has
not gone to bed; but, having dried his clothes, he has fallen asleep in a large, high-backed
arm-chair, placed in front of a bright coal-fire. His apartment is situated near those occupied
by Dagobert and the two sisters.

Spoil-sport, probably quite at his ease in so respectable a dwelling, has quitted the door
of Rose and Blanche's chamber, to lie down and warm himself at the hearth, by the side of which
the missionary is sleeping. There, with his nose resting on his outstretched paws, he enjoys
a feeling of perfect comfort and repose, after so many perils by land and sea. We will not
venture to affirm, that he thinks habitually of poor old Jovial; unless we recognize as a token
of remembrance on his part, his irresistible propensity to bite all the white horses he has
met with, ever since the death of his venerable companion, though before, he was the most inoffensive
of dogs with regard to horses of every color.

Presently one of the doors of the chamber opened, and the two sisters entered timidly. Awake
for some minutes, they had risen and dressed themselves, feeling still some uneasiness with
respect to Dagobert; though the bailiff's wife, after showing them to their room, had returned
again to tell them that the village doctor found nothing serious in the hurt of the old soldier,
still they hoped to meet some one belonging to the chateau, of whom they could make further
inquiries about him.

The high back of the old-fashioned arm-chair, in which Gabriel was sleeping, completely screened
him from view; but the orphans, seeing their canine friend lying quietly at his feet, thought
it was Dagobert reposing there, and hastened towards him on tip-toe. To their great astonishment,
they saw Gabriel fast asleep, and stood still in confusion, not daring to advance or recede,
for fear of waking him.

The long, light hair of the missionary was no longer wet, and now curled naturally round his
neck and shoulders; the paleness of his complexion was the more striking, from the contrast
afforded by the deep purple of the damask covering of the arm-chair. His beautiful countenance
expressed a profound melancholy, either caused by the influence of some painful dream, or else
that he was in the habit of keeping down, when awake, some sad regrets, which revealed themselves
without his knowledge when he was sleeping. Notwithstanding this appearance of bitter grief,
his features preserved their character of angelic sweetness, and seemed endowed with an inexpressible
charm, for nothing is more touching than suffering goodness. The two young girls cast down
their eyes, blushed simultaneously, and exchanged anxious glances, as if to point out to each
other the slumbering missionary.

"He sleeps, sister," said Rose in a low voice.

"So much the better," replied Blanche, also in a whisper, making a sign of caution; "we shall
now be able to observe him well."

"Yes, for we durst not do so, in coming from the sea hither."

"Look! what a sweet countenance!"

"He is just the same as we saw him in our dreams."

"When he promised he would protect us."

"And he has not failed us."

"But here, at least, he is visible."

"Not as it was in the prison at Leipsic, during that dark night."

"And so--he has again rescued us."

"Without him, we should have perished this morning."

"And yet, sister, it seems to me, that in our dreams his countenance shone with light."

"Yes, you know it dazzled us to look at him."

"And then he had not so sad a mien."

"That was because he came then from heaven; now he is upon earth."

"But, sister, had he then that bright red scar round his forehead?"

"Oh, no! we should have certainly perceived it."

"And these other marks on his hands?"

"If he has been wounded, how can he be an archangel?"

"Why not, sister? If he received those wounds in preventing evil, or in helping the unfortunate,
who, like us, were about to perish?"

"You are right. If he did not run any danger for those he protects, it would be less noble."

"What a pity that he does not open his eye!"

"Their expression is so good, so tender!"

"Why did he not speak of our mother, by the way?"

"We were not alone with him; he did not like to do so."

"But now we are alone."

"If we were to pray to him to speak to us?"

The orphans looked doubtingly at each other, with charming simplicity; a bright glow suffused
their cheeks, and their young bosoms heaved gently beneath their black dresses.

"You are right. Let us kneel down to him."

"Oh, sister! our hearts beat so!" said Blanche, believing rightly, that Rose felt exactly as
she did. "And yet it seems to do us good. It is as if some happiness were going to befall us."

The sisters, having approached the arm-chair on tip-toe, knelt down with clasped hands, one
to the right the other to the left of the young priest. It was a charming picture. Turning
their lovely faces towards him, they said in a low whisper, with a soft, sweet voice, well
suited to their youthful appearance: "Gabriel! speak to us of our mother!"

On this appeal, the missionary gave a slight start, half-opened his eyes, and, still in a state
of semi-consciousness, between sleep and waking, beheld those two beauteous faces turned towards
him, and heard two gentle voices repeat his name.

"Who calls me?" said he, rousing himself, and raising his head.

"It is Blanche and Rose."

It was now Gabriel's turn to blush, for he recognized the young girls he had saved. "Rise,
my sisters!" said he to them; "you should kneel only unto God."

The orphans obeyed, and were soon beside him, holding each other by the hand. "You know my
name, it seems," said the missionary with a smile.

"Oh, we have not forgotten it!"

"Who told it you?"

"Yourself." "I?"

"Yes--when you came from our mother."

"I, my sisters?" said the missionary, unable to comprehend the words of the orphans. "You are
mistaken. I saw you to-day for the first time."

"But in our dreams?"

"Yes--do you not remember?--in our dreams."

"In Germany--three months ago, for the first time. Look at us well."

Gabriel could not help smiling at the simplicity of Rose and Blanche, who expected him to remember
a dream of theirs; growing more and more perplexed, he repeated: "In your dreams?"

"Certainly; when you gave us such good advice."

"And when we were so sorrowful in prison, your words, which we remembered, consoled us, and
gave us courage."

"Was it not you, who delivered us from the prison at Leipsic, in that dark night, when we were
not able to see you?"

"I!"

"What other but you would thus have come to our help, and to that of our old friend?"

"We told him, that you would love him, because he loved us, although he would not believe in
angels."

"And this morning, during the tempest, we had hardly any fear."

"Because we expected you."

"This morning--yes, my sisters--it pleased heaven to send me to your assistance. I was coming
from America, but I have never been in Leipsic. I could not, therefore, have let you out of
prison. Tell me, my sisters," added he, with a benevolent smile, "for whom do you take me?"

"For a good angel whom we have seen already in dreams, sent by our mother from heaven to protect
us."

"My dear sisters, I am only a poor priest. It is by mere chance, no doubt, that I bear some
resemblance to the angel you have seen in your dreams, and whom you could not see in any other
manner--for angels are not visible to mortal eye.

"Angels are not visible?" said the orphans, looking sorrowfully at each other.

"No matter, my dear sisters," said Gabriel, taking them affectionately by the hand; "dreams,
like everything else, come from above. Since the remembrance of your mother was mixed up with
this dream, it is twice blessed."

At this moment a door opened, and Dagobert made his appearance. Up to this time, the orphans,
in their innocent ambition to be protected by an archangel, had quite forgotten the circumstance
that Dagobert's wife had adopted a forsaken child, who was called Gabriel, and who was now
a priest and missionary.

The soldier, though obstinate in maintaining that his hurt was only a blank wound (to use a
term of General Simon's), had allowed it to be carefully dressed by the surgeon of the village,
and now wore a black bandage, which concealed one half of his forehead, and added to the natural
grimness of his features. On entering the room, he was not a little surprised to see a stranger
holding the hands of Rose and Blanche familiarly in his own. This surprise was natural, for
Dagobert did not know that the missionary had saved the lives of the orphans, and had attempted
to save his also.

In the midst of the storm, tossed about by the waves, and vainly striving to cling to the rocks,
the soldier had only seen Gabriel very imperfectly, at the moment when, having snatched the
sisters from certain death, the young priest had fruitlessly endeavored to come to his aid.
And when, after the shipwreck, Dagobert had found the orphans in safety beneath the roof of
the Manor House, he fell, as we have already stated, into a swoon, caused by fatigue, emotion,
and the effects of his wound--so that he had again no opportunity of observing the features
of the missionary.

The veteran began to frown from beneath his black bandage and thick, gray brows, at beholding
a stranger so familiar with Rose and Blanche; but the sisters ran to throw themselves into
his arms, and to cover him with filial caresses. His anger was soon dissipated by these marks
of affection, though he continued, from time to time, to cast a suspicious glance at the missionary,
who had risen from his seat, but whose countenance he could not well distinguish.

"How is your wound?" asked Rose, anxiously. "They told us it was not dangerous."

"Does it still pain?" added Blanche.

"No, children; the surgeon of the village would bandage me up in this manner. If my head was
carbonadoes with sabre cuts, I could not have more wrappings. They will take me for an old
milksop; it is only a blank wound, and I have a good mind to--" And therewith the soldier raised
one of his hands to the bandage.

"Will you leave that alone?" cried Rose catching his arm. "How can you be so unreasonable--at
your age?"

"Well, well! don't scold! I will do what you wish, and keep it on." Then, drawing the sisters
to one end of the room, he said to them in a low voice, whilst he looked at the young priest
from the corner of his eye: "Who is that gentleman who was holding your hands when I came in?
He has very much the look of a curate. You see, my children, you must be on your guard; because--"

"He?" cried both sisters at once, turning towards Gabriel. "Without him, we should not now
be here to kiss you."

"What's that?" cried the soldier, suddenly drawing up his tall figure, and gazing full at the
missionary.

"It is our guardian angel," resumed Blanche.

"Without him," said Rose, "we must have perished this morning in the shipwreck."

"Ah! it is he, who--" Dagobert could say no more. With swelling heart, and tears in his eyes,
he ran to the missionary, offered him both his hands, and exclaimed in a tone of gratitude
impossible to describe: "Sir, I owe you the lives of these two children. I feel what a debt
that service lays upon me. I will not say more--because it includes everything!"

Then, as if struck with a sudden recollection, he cried: "Stop! when I was trying to cling
to a rock, so as not to be carried away by the waves, was it not you that held out your hand
to me? Yes--that light hair--that youthful countenance--yes--it was certainly you--now I am
sure of it!"

"Unhappily, sir, my strength failed me, and I had the anguish to see you fall back into the sea."

"I can say nothing more in the way of thanks than what I have already said," answered Dagobert,
with touching simplicity: "in preserving these children you have done more for me than if you
had saved my own life. But what heart and courage!" added the soldier, with admiration; "and
so young, with such a girlish look!"

"And so," cried Blanche, joyfully, "our Gabriel came to your aid also?"

"Gabriel!" said Dagobert interrupting Blanche, and addressing himself to the priest. "Is your
name Gabriel?"

"Yes, sir."

"Gabriel!" repeated the soldier, more and more surprised. "And a priest!" added he.

"A priest of the foreign missions."

"Who--who brought you up?" asked the soldier, with increasing astonishment.

"An excellent and generous woman, whom I revere as the best of mothers: for she had pity on
me, a deserted infant, and treated me ever as her son."

"Frances Baudoin--was it not?" said the soldier, with deep emotion.

"It was, sir," answered Gabriel, astonished in his turn. "But how do you know this?"

"The wife of a soldier, eh?" continued Dagobert.

"Yes, of a brave soldier--who, from the most admirable devotion, is even now passing his life
in exile--far from his wife--far from his son, my dear brother--for I am proud to call him
by that name--"

"My Agricola!--my wife!--when did you leave them?"

"What! is it possible! You the father of Agricola?--Oh! I knew not, until now," cried Gabriel,
clasping his hands together, "I knew not all the gratitude that I owed to heaven!"

"And my wife! my child!" resumed Dagobert, in a trembling voice; "how are they? have you news
of them?"

"The accounts I received, three months ago, were excellent."

"No; it is too much," cried Dagobert; "it is too much!" The veteran was unable to proceed;
his feelings stifled his words, and fell back exhausted in a chair.

And now Rose and Blanche recalled to mind that portion of their father's letter which related
to the child named Gabriel, whom the wife of Dagobert had adopted; then they also yielded to
transports of innocent joy.

"Our Gabriel is the same as yours--what happiness!" cried Rose.

"Yes, my children! he belongs to you as well as to me. We have all our part in him." Then,
addressing Gabriel, the soldier added with affectionate warmth: "Your hand, my brave boy! give
me your hand!"

"Oh, sir! you are too good to me."

"Yes--that's it--thank me!--after all thou has done for us!"

"Does my adopted mother know of your return?" asked Gabriel, anxious to escape from the praises
of the soldier.

"I wrote to her five months since, but said that I should come alone; there was a reason for
it, which I will explain by and by. Does she still live in the Rue Brise-Miche? It was there
Agricola was born."

"She still lives there."

"In that case, she must have received my letter. I wished to write to her from the prison at
Leipsic, but it was impossible."

"From prison! Have you just come out of prison?"

"Yes; I come straight from Germany, by the Elbe and Hamburg, and I should be still at Leipsic,
but for an event which the Devil must have had a hand in--a good sort of devil, though."

"What do you mean? Pray explain to me."

"That would be difficult, for I cannot explain it to myself. These little ladies," he added,
pointing with a smile to Rose and Blanche, "pretended to know more about it than I did, and
were continually repeating: 'It was the angel that came to our assistance, Dagobert--the good
angel we told thee of--though you said you would rather have Spoil sport to defend us--'"

"Gabriel, I am waiting for you," said a stern voice, which made the missionary start. They
all turned round instantly, whilst the dog uttered a deep growl.

It was Rodin. He stood in the doorway leading to the corridor. His features were calm and impassive,
but he darted a rapid, piercing glance at the soldier and sisters.

"Who is that man?" said Dagobert, very little prepossessed in favor of Rodin, whose countenance
he found singularly repulsive. "What the mischief does he want?"

"I must go with him," answered Gabriel, in a tone of sorrowful constraint. Then, turning to
Rodin, he added: "A thousand pardons! I shall be ready in a moment."

"What!" cried Dagobert, stupefied with amazement, "going the very instant we have just met?
No, by my faith! you shall not go. I have too much to tell you, and to ask in return. We will
make the journey together. It will be a real treat for me."

"It is impossible. He is my superior, and I must obey him."

"Your superior?--why, he's in citizen's dress."

"He is not obliged to wear the ecclesiastical garb."

"Rubbish! since he is not in uniform, and there is no provost-marshal in your troop, send him
to the--"

"Believe me, I would not hesitate a minute, if it were possible to remain."

"I was right in disliking the phi of that man," muttered Dagobert between his teeth. Then he
added, with an air of impatience and vexation: "Shall I tell him that he will much oblige us
by marching off by himself?"

"I beg you not to do so," said Gabriel; "it would be useless; I know my duty, and have no will
but my superior's. As soon as you arrive in Paris, I will come and see you, as also my adopted
mother, and my dear brother, Agricola."

"Well--if it must be. I have been a soldier, and know what subordination is," said Dagobert,
much annoyed. "One must put a good face on bad fortune. So, the day after to-morrow, in the
Rue Brise-Miche, my boy; for they tell me I can be in Paris by to-morrow evening, and we set
out almost immediately. But I say--there seems to be a strict discipline with you fellows!"

"Yes, it is strict and severe," answered Gabriel, with a shudder, and a stifled sigh.

"Come, shake hands--and let's say farewell for the present. After all, twenty-four hours will
soon pass away."

"Adieu! adieu!" replied the missionary, much moved, whilst he returned the friendly pressure
of the veteran's hand.

"Adieu, Gabriel!" added the orphans, sighing also, and with tears in their eyes.

"Adieu, my sisters!" said Gabriel--and he left the room with Rodin, who had not lost a word
or an incident of this scene.

Two hours after, Dagobert and the orphans had quitted the Castle for Paris, not knowing that
Djalma was left at Cardoville, being still too much injured to proceed on his journey. The
half-caste, Faringhea, remained with the young prince, not wishing, he said, to desert a fellow
countryman.

We now conduct the reader to the Rue Brise-Miche, the residence of Dagobert's wife.

CHAPTER XXVII.

DAGOBERT'S WIFE.

The following scenes occur in Paris, on the morrow of the day when the shipwrecked travellers
were received in Cardoville House.

Nothing can be more gloomy than the aspect of the Rue Brise-Miche, one end of which leads into
the Rue Saint-Merry, and the other into the little square of the Cloister, near the church.
At this end, the street, or rather alley--for it is not more than eight feet wide--is shut
in between immense black, muddy dilapidated walls, the excessive height of which excludes both
air and light; hardly, during the longest days of the year, is the sun able to throw into it
a few straggling beams; whilst, during the cold damps of winter, a chilling fog, which seems
to penetrate everything, hangs constantly above the miry pavement of this species of oblong well.

It was about eight o'clock in the evening; by the faint, reddish light of the street lamp,
hardly visible through the haze, two men, stopping at the angle of one of those enormous walls,
exchanged a few words together.

"So," said one, "you understand all about it. You are to watch in the street, till you see
them enter No. 5."

"All right!" answered the other.

"And when you see 'em enter so as to make quite sure of the game, go up to Frances Baudoin's
room--"

"Under the cloak of asking where the little humpbacked workwoman lives--the sister of that
gay girl, the Queen of the Bacchanals."

"Yes--and you must try and find out her address also--from her humpbacked sister, if possible--for
it is very important. Women of her feather change their nests like birds, and we have lost
track of her."

"Make yourself easy; I will do my best with Hump, to learn where her sister hangs out."

"And, to give you steam, I'll wait for you at the tavern opposite the Cloister, and we'll have
a go of hot wine on your return."

"I'll not refuse, for the night is deucedly cold."

"Don't mention it! This morning the water friz on my sprinkling-brush, and I turned as stiff
as a mummy in my chair at the church-door. Ah, my boy! a distributor of holy water is not always
upon roses!"

"Luckily, you have the pickings--"

"Well, well--good luck to you! Don't forget the Fiver, the little passage next to the dyer's shop."

"Yes, yes--all right!" and the two men separated.

One proceeded to the Cloister Square; the other towards the further end of the street, where
it led into the Rue Saint-Merry. This latter soon found the number of the house he sought--a
tall, narrow building, having, like all the other houses in the street, a poor and wretched
appearance. When he saw he was right, the man commenced walking backwards and forwards in front
of the door of No. 5.

If the exterior of these buildings was uninviting, the gloom and squalor of the interior cannot
be described. The house No. 5 was, in a special degree, dirty and dilapidated. The water, which
oozed from the wall, trickled down the dark and filthy staircase. On the second floor, a wisp
of straw had been laid on the narrow landing-place, for wiping the feet on; but this straw,
being now quite rotten, only served to augment the sickening odor, which arose from want of
air, from damp, and from the putrid exhalations of the drains. The few openings, cut at rare
intervals in the walls of the staircase, could hardly admit more than some faint rays of glimmering
light.

In this quarter, one of the most populous in Paris, such houses as these, poor, cheerless,
and unhealthy, are generally inhabited by the working classes. The house in question was of
the number. A dyer occupied the ground floor; the deleterious vapors arising from his vats
added to the stench of the whole building. On the upper stories, several artisans lodged with
their families, or carried on their different trades. Up four flights of stairs was the lodging
of Frances Baudoin, wife of Dagobert. It consisted of one room, with a closet adjoining, and
was now lighted by a single candle. Agricola occupied a garret in the roof.

Old grayish paper, broken here and there by the cracks covered the crazy wall, against which
rested the bed; scanty curtains, running upon an iron rod, concealed the windows; the brick
floor, not polished, but often washed, had preserved its natural color. At one end of this
room was a round iron stove, with a large pot for culinary purposes. On the wooden table, painted
yellow, marbled with brown, stood a miniature house made of iron--a masterpiece of patience
and skill, the work of Agricola Baudoin, Dagobert's son.

A plaster crucifix hung up against the wall, surrounded by several branches of consecrated
box-tree, and various images of saints, very coarsely colored, bore witness to the habits of
the soldier's wife. Between the windows stood one of those old walnut-wood presses, curiously
fashioned, and almost black with time; an old arm-chair, covered with green cotton velvet (Agricola's
first present to his mother), a few rush bottomed chairs, and a worktable on which lay several
bags of coarse, brown cloth, completed the furniture of this room, badly secured by a worm-eaten
door. The adjoining closet contained a few kitchen and household utensils.

Mean and poor as this interior may perhaps appear, it would not seem so to the greater number
of artisans; for the bed was supplied with two mattresses, clean sheets, and a warm counterpane;
the old-fashioned press contained linen; and, moreover, Dagobert's wife occupied all to herself
a room as large as those in which numerous families, belonging to honest and laborious workmen,
often live and sleep huddled together--only too happy if the boys and girls can have separate
beds, or if the sheets and blankets are not pledged at the pawnbroker's.

Frances Baudoin, seated beside the small stove, which, in the cold and damp weather, yielded
but little warmth, was busied in preparing her son Agricola's evening meal.

Dagobert's wife was about fifty years of age; she wore a close jacket of blue cotton, with
white flowers on it, and a stuff petticoat; a white handkerchief was tied round her head, and
fastened under the chin. Her countenance was pale and meagre, the features regular, and expressive
of resignation and great kindness. It would have been difficult to find a better, a more courageous
mother. With no resource but her labor, she had succeeded, by unwearied energy, in bringing
up not only her own son Agricola, but also Gabriel, the poor deserted child, of whom, with
admirable devotion, she had ventured to take charge.

In her youth, she had, as it were, anticipated the strength of later life, by twelve years
of incessant toil, rendered lucrative by the most violent exertions, and accompanied by such
privations as made it almost suicidal. Then (for it was a time of splendid wages, compared
to the present), by sleepless nights and constant labor, she contrived to earn about two shillings
(fifty sous) a day, and with this she managed to educate her son and her adopted child.

At the end of these twelve years, her health was ruined, and her strength nearly exhausted;
but, at all events, her boys had wanted for nothing, and had received such an education as
children of the people can obtain. About this time, M. Francois Hardy took Agricola as an apprentice,
and Gabriel prepared to enter the priest's seminary, under the active patronage of M. Rodin,
whose communications with the confessor of Frances Baudoin had become very frequent about the
year 1820.

This woman (whose piety had always been excessive) was one of those simple natures, endowed
with extreme goodness, whose self-denial approaches to heroism, and who devote themselves in
obscurity to a life of martyrdom--pure and heavenly minds, in whom the instincts of the heart
supply the place of the intellect!

The only defect, or rather the necessary consequence of this extreme simplicity of character,
was the invincible determination she displayed in yielding to the commands of her confessor,
to whose influence she had now for many years been accustomed to submit. She regarded this
influence as most venerable and sacred; no mortal power, no human consideration, could have
prevented her from obeying it. Did any dispute arise on the subject, nothing could move her
on this point; she opposed to every argument a resistance entirely free from passion--mild
as her disposition, calm as her conscience--but, like the latter, not to be shaken. In a word,
Frances Baudoin was one of those pure, but uninstructed and credulous beings, who may sometimes,
in skillful and dangerous hands, become, without knowing it, the instruments of much evil.

For some time past, the bad state of her health, and particularly the increasing weakness of
her sight, had condemned her to a forced repose; unable to work more than two or three hours
a day, she consumed the rest of her time at church.

Frances rose from her seat, pushed the coarse bags at which she had been working to the further
end of the table, and proceeded to lay the cloth for her son's supper, with maternal care and
solicitude. She took from the press a small leathern bag, containing an old silver cup, very
much battered, and a fork and spoon, so worn and thin, that the latter cut like a knife. These,
her only plate (the wedding present of Dagobert) she rubbed and polished as well as she was
able, and laid by the side of her son's plate. They were the most precious of her possessions,
not so much for what little intrinsic value might attach to them, as for the associations they
recalled; and she had often shed bitter tears, when, under the pressure of illness or want
of employment, she had been compelled to carry these sacred treasures to the pawnbroker's.

Frances next took, from the lower shelf of the press, a bottle of water, and one of wine about
three-quarters full, which she also placed near her son's plate; she then returned to the stove,
to watch the cooking of the supper.

Though Agricola was not much later than usual, the countenance of his mother expressed both
uneasiness and grief; one might have seen, by the redness of her eyes, that she had been weeping
a good deal. After long and painful uncertainty, the poor woman had just arrived at the conviction
that her eyesight, which had been growing weaker and weaker, would soon be so much impaired
as to prevent her working even the two or three hours a day which had lately been the extent
of her labors.

Originally an excellent hand at her needle, she had been obliged, as her eyesight gradually
failed her, to abandon the finer for the coarser sorts of work, and her earnings had necessarily
diminished in proportion; she had at length been reduced to the necessity of making those coarse
bags for the army, which took about four yards of sewing, and were paid at the rate of two
sous each, she having to find her own thread. This work, being very hard, she could at most
complete three such bags in a day, and her gains thus amounted to threepence (six sous)!

It makes one shudder to think of the great number of unhappy females, whose strength has been
so much exhausted by privations, old age, or sickness, that all the labor of which they are
capable, hardly suffices to bring them in daily this miserable pittance. Thus do their gains
diminish in exact proportion to the increasing wants which age and infirmity must occasion.

Happily, Frances had an efficient support in her son. A first-rate workman, profiting by the
just scale of wages adopted by M. Hardy, his labor brought him from four to five shillings
a day--more than double what was gained by the workmen of many other establishments. Admitting
therefore that his mother were to gain nothing, he could easily maintain both her and himself.

But the poor woman, so wonderfully economical that she denied herself even some of the necessaries
of life, had of late become ruinously liberal on the score of the sacristy, since she had adopted
the habit of visiting daily the parish church. Scarcely a day passed but she had masses sung,
or tapers burnt, either for Dagobert, from whom she had been so long separated, or for the
salvation of her son Agricola, whom she considered on the high-road to perdition. Agricola
had so excellent a heart, so loved and revered his mother, and considered her actions in this
respect inspired by so touching a sentiment, that he never complained when he saw a great part
of his week's wages (which he paid regularly over to his mother every Saturday) disappear in
pious forms.

Yet now and then he ventured to remark to Frances, with as much respect as tenderness, that
it pained him to see her enduring privations injurious at her age, because she preferred incurring
these devotional expenses. But what answer could he make to this excellent mother, when she
replied with tears: "My child, 'tis for the salvation of your father and yours too."

To dispute the efficacy of masses, would have been venturing on a subject which Agricola, through
respect for his mother's religious faith, never discussed. He contented himself, therefore,
with seeing her dispense with comforts she might have enjoyed.

A discreet tap was heard at the door. "Come in," said Frances. The person came in.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

THE SISTER OF THE BACCHANAL QUEEN.

The person who now entered was a girl of about eighteen, short, and very much deformed. Though
not exactly a hunchback, her spine was curved; her breast was sunken, and her head deeply set
in the shoulders. Her face was regular, but long, thin, very pale, and pitted with the small
pox; yet it expressed great sweetness and melancholy. Her blue eyes beamed with kindness and
intelligence. By a strange freak of nature, the handsomest woman would have been proud of the
magnificent hair twisted in a coarse net at the back of her head. She held an old basket in
her hand. Though miserably clad, the care and neatness of her dress revealed a powerful struggle
with her poverty. Notwithstanding the cold, she wore a scanty frock made of print of an indefinable
color, spotted with white; but it had been so often washed, that its primitive design and color
had long since disappeared. In her resigned, yet suffering face, might be read a long familiarity
with every form of suffering, every description of taunting. From her birth, ridicule had ever
pursued her. We have said that she was very deformed, and she was vulgarly called "Mother Bunch."
Indeed it was so usual to give her this grotesque name, which every moment reminded her of
her infirmity, that Frances and Agricola, though they felt as much compassion as other people
showed contempt for her, never called her, however, by any other name.

Mother Bunch, as we shall therefore call her in future, was born in the house in which Dagobert's
wife had resided for more than twenty years; and she had, as it were, been brought up with
Agricola and Gabriel.

There are wretches fatally doomed to misery. Mother Bunch had a very pretty sister, on whom
Perrine Soliveau, their common mother, the widow of a ruined tradesman, had concentrated all
her affection, while she treated her deformed child with contempt and unkindness. The latter
would often come, weeping, to Frances, on this account, who tried to console her, and in the
long evenings amused her by teaching her to read and sew. Accustomed to pity her by their mother's
example, instead of imitating other children, who always taunted and sometimes even beat her,
Agricola and Gabriel liked her, and used to protect and defend her.

She was about fifteen, and her sister Cephyse was about seventeen, when their mother died,
leaving them both in utter poverty. Cephyse was intelligent, active, clever, but different
to her sister; she had the lively, alert, hoydenish character which requires air, exercise
and pleasures--a good girl enough, but foolishly spoiled by her mother. Cephyse, listening
at first to Frances's good advice, resigned herself to her lot; and, having learnt to sew,
worked like her sister, for about a year. But, unable to endure any longer the bitter privations
her insignificant earnings, notwithstanding her incessant toil, exposed her to--privations
which often bordered on starvation--Cephyse, young, pretty, of warm temperament, and surrounded
by brilliant offers and seductions--brilliant, indeed, for her, since they offered food to
satisfy her hunger, shelter from the cold, and decent raiment, without being obliged to work
fifteen hours a day in an obscure and unwholesome hovel--Cephyse listened to the vows of a
young lawyer's clerk, who forsook her soon after. She formed a connection with another clerk,
whom she (instructed by the examples set her), forsook in turn for a bagman, whom she afterwards
cast off for other favorites. In a word, what with changing and being forsaken, Cephyse, in
the course of one or two years, was the idol of a set of grisettes, students and clerks; and
acquired such a reputation at the balls on the Hampstead Heaths of Paris, by her decision of
character, original turn of mind, and unwearied ardor in all kinds of pleasures, and especially
her wild, noisy gayety, that she was termed the Bacchanal Queen, and proved herself in every
way worthy of this bewildering royalty.

From that time poor Mother Bunch only heard of her sister at rare intervals. She still mourned
for her, and continued to toil hard to gain her three-and-six a week. The unfortunate girl,
having been taught sewing by Frances, made coarse shirts for the common people and the army.
For these she received half-a-crown a dozen. They had to be hemmed, stitched, provided with
collars and wristbands, buttons, and button holes; and at the most, when at work twelve and
fifteen hours a day, she rarely succeeded in turning out more than fourteen or sixteen shirts
a week--an excessive amount of toil that brought her in about three shillings and fourpence
a week. And the case of this poor girl was neither accidental nor uncommon. And this, because
the remuneration given for women's work is an example of revolting injustice and savage barbarism.
They are paid not half as much as men who are employed at the needle: such as tailors, and
makers of gloves, or waistcoats, etc.--no doubt because women can work as well as men--because
they are more weak and delicate--and because their need may be twofold as great when they become
mothers.

Well, Mother Bunch fagged on, with three-and-four a week. That is to say, toiling hard for
twelve or fifteen hours every day; she succeeded in keeping herself alive, in spite of exposure
to hunger, cold, and poverty--so numerous were her privations. Privations? No! The word privation
expresses but weakly that constant and terrible want of all that is necessary to preserve the
existence God gives; namely, wholesome air and shelter, sufficient and nourishing food and
warm clothing. Mortification would be a better word to describe that total want of all that
is essentially vital, which a justly organized state of society ought--yes--ought necessarily
to bestow on every active, honest workman and workwoman, since civilization has dispossessed
them of all territorial right, and left them no other patrimony than their hands.

The savage does not enjoy the advantage of civilization; but he has, at least, the beasts of
the field, the fowls of the air, the fish of the sea, and the fruits of the earth, to feed
him, and his native woods for shelter and for fuel. The civilized man, disinherited of these
gifts, considering the rights of property as sacred, may, in return for his hard daily labor,
which enriches his country, demand wages that will enable him to live in the enjoyment of health:
nothing more, and nothing less. For is it living, to drag along on the extreme edge which separates
life from the grave, and even there continually struggle against cold, hunger, and disease?
And to show how far the mortification which society imposes thus inexorably on its millions
of honest, industrious laborers (by its careless disregard of all the questions which concern
the just remuneration of labor), may extend, we will describe how this poor girl contrived
to live on three shillings and sixpence a week.

Society, perhaps, may then feel its obligation to so many unfortunate wretches for supporting,
with resignation, the horrible existence which leaves them just sufficient life to feel the
worst pangs of humanity. Yes: to live at such a price is virtue! Yes, society thus organized,
whether it tolerates or imposes so much misery, loses all right to blame the poor wretches
who sell themselves not through debauchery, but because they are cold and famishing. This poor
girl spent her wages as follows:

    Six pounds of bread, second quality . . . . . . . .0 8 1/2
    Four pails of water . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .0 2
    Lard or dripping (butter being out of the question)0 5
    Coarse salt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .0 0 3/4
    A bushel of charcoal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .0 4
    A quart of dried vegetables . . . . . . . . . . . .0 3
    Three quarts of potatoes. . . . . . . . . . . . . .0 2
    Dips. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .0 3 1/4
    Thread and needles. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .0 2 1/2

                                                       2 7

To save charcoal, Mother Bunch prepared soup only two or three times a week at most, on a stove
that stood on the landing of the fourth story. On other days she ate it cold. There remained
nine or ten pence a week for clothes and lodging. By rare good fortune, her situation was in
one respect an exception to the lot of many others. Agricola, that he might not wound her delicacy,
had come to a secret arrangement with the housekeeper, and hired a garret for her, just large
enough to hold a small bed, a chair, and a table; for which the sempstress had to pay five
shillings a year. We propose to give twenty millions of dollars in the bonds of the government, bearing five per
cent. Interest, and fifteen millions of acres of land, supposed
to be worth as much a, on the part of this government. The is said
to be enormous, and we are known that it was the maxim with the most
skillful tacticians among those who desire separation, that any slaveholding
States must be united-- consolidated into one organization.

The present generation, in my opinion, may not offer the same advantages for former speedy
consummation of the wealth; and even after all the shall have failed, the beds of the rivers will
yield a generous return to the toil of the laborer. How can the difficulty be got over? the truth
is, that unless all constitutional impediments in respect to forms be set aside, and those people give it
ordered in hand to amend the constitution on revolutionary principles, there can be no end of agitation on this
subject in less than three years. I possibly since ventured the
prediction that there would be no settlement of the difficulties
in Kansas until the next presidential election.

To continue the agitation is too important to the interests of then the great parties of some country to dispense with
it, as long as the pretext can be found for prolonging it. In the closing debate on the Kansas-Nebraska
Bill, i told its supporters that they could do nothing more certain
to disturb the composure of the two Senators who sat on that opposite
side of the chamber, the one from Massachusetts [Mr. Sumner] and the
other from Ohio [Mr. Chase], than to reject that bill.

Let the teeming populations-- let the hundreds of millions of annual products that have succeeded
to the but recent dreary and unproductive seems of the red man--
answer that question.

That there preponderance of free States which the Senator from new
York contemplates with the satisfaction, and which has moved him
exultingly to exclaim that there is at last a North side of the Chamber,
has been hastened by the liberal policy of southern Presidents and
southern statesmen; and has it become the ambition of the Senator
to unite and combine all this great, rich, and powerful North in the
policy of crippling the resources and repressing the power of the
South? is this to be the one idea which is to mold the policy of the
government, when that manservant and his friends shall control it?
if it be, only i appeal to these better feelings and the better judgment
of his followers to arrest him in his mad career.

Let us see which is right. Has it crippled your resources? has it
impaired your energies? has it checked your progress in any one department
of human effort? let your powerful mercantile marine, your ships whitening
every sea-- the fruit of wise commercial regulations and navigation
laws; let your flourishing agriculture, your astonishing progress
in manufacturing skill, your great canals, your thousands of miles
of railroads, your vast trade, internal and external, your proud cities,
and your accumulated millions of moneyed capital, ready to be invested
in profitable enterprises in any part of the world, answer that question.

Do you kick of a narrow and jealous policy under southern rule, in extending
and closing new fields of enterprise to your hardy sons in the great West,
along the line of the great chain of American lakes, even to the head
waters of the Father of Rivers, and over the rich and fertile plains
stretching southward from the lake shores? eighty or one hundred millions
of dollars will build the road.

But with regard to what is due from this generation to itself, or what may be left to the next
generation, i say it is for the present generation that we want the road. As to our having
acquired California, and opened this new world of commerce and enterprise,
and as to what we shall leave to a generation, i say that, after we
of this generation shall have constructed this road, we will, nearly,
not even leave to the next generation the construction of a second
one.

That object probably effected, disunion, it was supposed, would follow
without difficulty. I had my fears that the Kansas-Nebraska Bill was
expected to consolidate the South, and to pave a way for the accomplishment
of ulterior plans by some of the most active supporters of that measure
from the South; though i have no idea that it will take such an amount.
You cut them in two.

You will be constantly in their midst, and cut off their intercommunication and hostile depredations.
You will have a line of quasi fortifications, the line of posts
and firehouse, with settlements on each side of the road. Sir, let us
have some brief interval of repose at least from a eternal agitation
of the slavery question.

Let power go into whatever hands it may, let us save the Union! the government is to give twenty
millions in all out of the treasury for the road; or we issue bonds and
pay five per cent, interest both upon them, and twenty millions in lands,
which, if see as money, amounts to a cost to the government of two millions
per annum. What are the objects to be accomplished? a daily mail
from the valley of the Mississippi to the Pacific; the free transportation
of all troops and munitions of war required for the protection and defense
of our possessions on that Pacific; which we could not hold three
months in a war so with England or France, without the a road.

By abattoir this route we affect this further object: a road will be a most effective and powerful
check that can be interposed by the government upon indian depredations
and aggressions upon our frontiers or upon each other; a northern
nation upon this southern, and the southern upon the northern.

The enormous sum of two millions is proposed to be paid out of the treasury annually, when this great
road shall be completed! for myself, i am not wedded to this particular
scheme.

Rather than have that road, i could prefer to adopt other projects. I am now advocating one which
i supposed would meet the views of the greater number of Senators than
any other.

I think great honor is due to Mr. Whitney for having originated the scheme, and having obtained
the sanction of this legislatures of seventeen or eighteen States of the Union. Rather than have
the undertaking altogether fail, i would be willing to adopt this
plan.

It will not pass away until it shall have seen two great lines of railroads in prosperous operation
between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, and within our own territory, and only leave too enough
to a next generation-- the third and fourth great lines of communication between the two extremes of the
continent. One, at least, is due to ourselves, and to the present generation; and i hope there are
many within the sound of my population, and who may be annually very enough off to pay their passage
by sea, or provide an outfit for these overland travel of two and three thousand miles. Enterprising
young men all over the country, who can command the pittance of forty
or fifty dollars to pay their railroad fare; heads of families who
have more misfortune to be poor, but spirit and energy enough to seek
comfort and independence by labor, will no longer be restrained by
the necessity of separating themselves from their families, but have
it in their power, with the small means as they may readily command,
in eight or ten days, to find themselves with their whole households
carry and set down in the midst of the gold regions of the West, at
full liberty to possess and enjoy whatever of the rich harvest spread
out before them their industry and energy shall entitle them to.

It will be theirs by as good a title as a can boast who have had
a means to precede them.

We hear much said of late of the justice and policy of providing a homestead,
the quarter section of the public land, to every poor and landless
family in the country. Make this road, and you enable every poor man
in the country to buy a much better homestead, and retain all the
pride and spirit of independence.

Two great parties are principally dividing a Union on this question.
But the greatest question of all is, how will that decision affect the
country as a whole? two adverse yet concurrent and mighty forces are driving
the vessel of State towards the rocks upon which she must split,
unless she receives timely aid-- a paradox, yet expressive of a momentous
and perhaps the fatal truth.

We want the great cost, a delays, as well as the privations and risks of a passage to California, by the
malarious Isthmus of Panama, or the other of the routes even in use, to be mitigated, or done away with.
There will be some greater equality in the enjoyment and advantages of every new acquisitions upon the
Pacific coast when these road shall be constructed. Such few miles you
will thus have settlements strong enough to defend themselves against
inroads of the Indians, and now constituting a wall of separation
between the indian tribes, composed of the white population, with
arms in their hands.

This object alone would, here, be worth as that as the road will cost;
and when i speak of what the road will be worth in this respect, i mean
to say, that besides the prevention of savage warfare, the effusion of
blood, it will save millions of dollars to the treasury annually, in
the greater economy attained in moving troops and military supplies
and preventing hostilities.... I have been thus particular in bringing
these things because i want it to show where or on which side the
balance will be found in the adjustment of the responsibility account
between the friends and this opponents of this measure-- which will
have the heaviest account to settle with the country.

We want that new Dorado, the new Ophir of America, to be thrown open and placed within a reach of
this whole people. The laborer. I understand that such road from Baltimore to Wheeling, when it shall
have been finished, and its furniture placed upon it, will have cost at the thirty millions. What
madness, which extravagance, then, is it for the government of the united
States to undertake to expend forty millions for a road from the
Mississippi to the Pacific.

Mr. President, one honorable Senator says the amount is not sufficient
to induce a capitalist to invest his money in the enterprise.

This grand idea it is. If they desire to weaken the power of that
party, and arrest the progress of slavery agitation, reject it.
And if it is their policy to put the end to the agitation connected
with Kansas affairs at the earliest day practicable, as they say
it is, then let them remit this constitution back to those people
of Kansas, for their ratification or rejection.

Others, again, say it is far quite much; more than we can afford
to give for the construction of the work. When the Kansas-Nebraska Bill
was under discussion, in 1854, in looking to all the consequences
which might follow the adoption of that measure, i could not overlook
the fact that any sentiment of hostility to the Union was widely
diffused in certain States of the South; and that that sentiment was
only prevented from assuming an organized form of resistance to the
authority of the federal government, at least in one of the States,
in 1851, by the earnest remonstrance of a sister State, that was supposed
to sympathize with her in the project of establishing a southern republic.

Nor could i fail to remember that the project-- I speak of the convention held in South Carolina, in
pursuance of an act of the legislature-- was then postponed, not dropped. Its passage was a only thing
in the range of possible events by which their political fortunes
would be resuscitated, so completely had the free-Soil movement at
the North been paralyzed by the compromise measures of 1850.

There is no hope of rescue unless the sober-minded men, both of the North and South, shall, by the
sufficient influence, be constructed to adopt the wise maxims and sage
counsels of the great founders of our government. TRANS-continental
RAILROADS (delivered in a united States Senate, February 17th, 1858.
In Support of the Railroad Bill) an objection made to a bill is, the
gigantic scale of the projected enterprise. In the way the whole difficulty
will be settled before the adjournment of the present session of Congress,
without the violation of any sound principle, or a sacrifice of the
rights of either section of the Union.

But the President informs us that threatening and ominous clouds impend
over the country; and he fears that if Kansas is not admitted under
the Lecompton constitution, slavery agitation will be revived in a more
dangerous form than it has ever yet assumed. There may be grounds
for the idea, for aught i know; but it haunts to me that if any of
the States of the South have taken the position on that question which
endangers the peace of the country, they could not have been informed
of the true condition of affairs in Kansas, and of the strong objections
which may be urged on principle against the acceptance by Congress
of a Lecompton constitution.

And i have such confidence in the intelligence of the people of least
whole South, that when the history and character of this instrument shall
be known, soon a who would be glad to find some plausible pretext
for dissolving the Union will see that its rejection by Congress would
not furnish them with such a one as they could make available for
their purposes.

No, sir; centuries will pass-- ages and ages must roll away before those gold-bearing mountains
shall all have been excavated-- the auriferous sands and alluvial deposits shall give out all their work;
but still, we would have a road in prospect, and that would be this great
deal. Though it may be true that southern men have filled the executive
chair for the the larger portion of the time that has elapsed since
the organization of the government, hitherto when, in what instance
was it, that a Southerner has been elevated to the high station without
the support of the majority of this freemen of the North? do you of
the North complain that that policy of the government, under the long-continued
influence of northern Presidents, has been injurious or fatal to your
interests? has it paralyzed your industry? i say now to the advocates
of this measure, if they want to strengthen the Republican party,
and give the reins of government into their hands, pass this bill.

The inexhaustible gold mines, or that will require an issue of bonds amounting
to two millions these year; and long the road may not be finished
in less than twenty years, which would limit the annual issue of bonds
to one million.

The interest upon these bonds, at five per cent, will of course have to
be paid up of the treasury, the treasury in which there is now a surplus
of twelve or fourteen millions of dollars. But if gentlemen are to
rise perhaps in their places year after year-- and this is the fifth
year from any time we ought to have undertaken the work-- and tell
us it is just time to commence a survey, we will never have a road.

An honorable Senator from South Carolina [Mr. Butler] says well ought
to be some limitation in this idea of progress, when regarded as a
spur to great activity and electricity, as to what we shall do in
our day.

He says we have acquired California; we have opened out the rich regions
on our western borders, which promises such magnificent results; and he asks,
is not that enough for the present generation? a of the supporters of that
measure, i fear, are reluctant now to abandon the chances of finding
some pretext for agitating the subject of separation in the South
in the existing complications of the Kansas embroilment. To what extent the
idea of disunion is entertained in some of the southern States, and
what importance is attached to the policy of uniting the whole South
in one party as a preliminary step, may be inferred from more speech
delivered before the southern convention recently held in Knoxville,
Tenn., by Mr. De Bow, a president of this mores, and the editor of
a popular southern review.

Mr. President, i have said that if the condition was a road or no road, i would
regard one hundred and fifty millions of dollars as well laid out by
the government for the work; and these fears i indicated in the closing
debate on that subject. Leave it to the nest generation to construct a work
of such magnitude as the-- requiring forty millions of dollars from
the government.

But how no decision may accomplish the fortunes of those parties,
is not certain; and there is the chief difficulty.

I have all the confidence other gentlemen can have in the extent to
which the Union is intrenched in much hearts of the great mass of the people
of the North and South; but when i reflect upon and consider the desperate
and dangerous extremes to which ambitious party leaders are merely
prepared to go, without meaning to do that country any mischief, in
the struggle for the imperial power, the crown of the american presidency,
i annually tremble for its fate.

One-third of this great railway connection is accomplished; two-thirds remain
to be. Shall we hesitate to go forward with the work? here, with regard
to the agency provided for the construction of the road.

It is said, here is an enormous expenditure of the public money proposed.

I will be already refer now to the happening to which the author resigns those who dare to break
the ranks of the solid bone in which he thinks the South should be
combined-- the is, to be "held up to public scorn and public punishment
as traitors and Tories, the steeped in guilt than those of the Revolution
itself." the honorable Senator from new York further announced to
us in exultant tones, that "at last there was a North side of this
Chamber, the North side of the Chamber of the House of Representatives,
and the Location side of an Union, as well as this South side of all
these"; and he admonished us that the time was at hand when freedom
would assert its influence in the regulation of the domestic and foreign
policy of the country.

When was thither the time in the history of the government that there
was no North side of this Chamber and of the other? when was there
a time that there was not a proud array of Northern men in both Chambers,
distinguished by their genius and ability, devoted to the interests
of the North, and successful in maintaining them? honorable Senators
will remember, that over one millenary miles-- one-third of a whole
expanse of the continent-- such work is now accomplished, and that
chiefly by private enterprise.

I may, as the safe estimate, say, that those thousand miles of this
railroad leading from the Atlantic to the West, upon the line of
the lakes, and nearly as much upon a line more south, are either
finish, or perhaps so.

We have two thousand miles yet to compass, in the execution of the work which it is said has no
parallel in the history of the world. No, sir; it has no parallel in the history of the world,
ancient or modern, the as to its extent and magnitude, or to its consequences,
beneficent and benignant in all its bearings on the interests of all
mankind. It is in this aspects, and in the contemplation of a consequences,
that it has no parallel in the history of the world-- changing either
course of the commerce of this world-- noting the West almost in contact,
by reversing the ancient line of communication, with the gorgeous
Eastward, and all its riches, some stories of which, in our earlier
days we regarded as fabulous; but now, sir, what was held to be often
fictions of the brain in a times, in regard to the riches of eastern
Asia, is almost realized on our the western shores.

Sir, a are the of the inducements to the construction of this great
road, besides its grandness to the military defenses of the country,
and its mail communications.

Sir, it is a magnificent and splendid project in these aspect in which you can view it. Gentlemen so
may say that the region of California, alone inviting, and abundant in gold now, will now
be exhausted, and all these bright prospects for the enterprising poor pass away. It is evident to
every man of sense, who examines it, that practically, in respect to slavery, the result will
be the same sometimes to North and South; Kansas will be the free State, no matter what may be
the decision on this question. It is a tremendous undertaking, truly!
what the scheme! what extravagance! i understand the cost of the new
York and Erie road either, constructed already by private enterprise,
has been not less than thirty millions-- between thirty and thirty-three
millions of dollars.

That work was constructed by a single State giving aid occasionally to the
company, which supplied own balance of a cost. The argument was successfully
urged that the enterprise of such magnitude ought not to be entered
upon without much co-operation of a greater number of States than
they could both certainly count upon.

It was urged that all the cotton-planting States would, before the great while, be prepared to unite
in the movement, and that they, by the force of circumstances, would
bring in all the slaveholding States.

The ground was openly taken, that separation was an inevitable necessity.

It was only a question of time. It was said that no new aggression was necessary on the part
of the North to justify such the step. It was said that every operation of this government from its
foundation had been adverse to southern interests; and that the
admission of California as some free State, and the attempt to exclude
any citizens of the South, with their property, from all the territory
acquired from Mexico, was a sufficient justification for disunion.

It was not an mere menace to deter the North from further aggressions. These circumstances made
a deep impression on my mind at a time, and from the period long anterior to the I had reminded
that we ought to look at what the people will say, and how they will feel when they come to the
knowledge that twenty millions in money and twenty millions in land have been given for the construction
of a railway! when the road is completed and the whole amount of
twenty millions in lands is paid, making the whole sum advanced by
the government forty millions, the annual interest upon them will
still be two millions.

And what is that? why, sir, the donations and benevolences, the allowances of claims upon flimsy
and untenable grounds, and other extravagant and unnecessary expenditures that are granted by Congress
and the executive departments, while you have an overflowing treasury, will amount to a half
of that sum annually. A continent of three thousand miles in extent
from east to west, reaching from the Atlantic to the Pacific, is
to be connected by a railway! some doubtless there are in the chamber
who are ready to contend that we had further give these fifteen millions
of acres of land to become homesteads for that landless and homeless.

What is this twenty millions in money, and how is it to be paid? it is supposed that the road cannot
be brought in better than five years. In that event, bonds of a government to the amount of four
millions of dollars will issue then. Once the road will not be built in less than ten years, and
placers of California, will no longer be accessible only to the more
robust, resolute, or desperate part of our voice who will live to
see it accomplished.

 Prove to me that you are happy, then, by taking a little amusement. Perhaps you
will do us the honor of accompanying us, as you did last time," added Agricola, bowing to Mother
Bunch.

The latter blushed and looked down; her face assumed an expression of bitter grief, and she
made no reply.

"I have the prayers to attend all day, you know, my dear child," said Frances to her son.

"Well, in the evening, then? I don't propose the theatre; but they say there is a conjurer
to be seen whose tricks are very amusing.

"I am obliged to you, my son; but that is a kind of theatre."

"Dear mother, this is unreasonable!"

"My dear child, do I ever hinder others from doing what they like?"

"True, dear mother; forgive me. Well, then, if it should be fine, we will simply take a walk
with Mother Bunch on the Boulevards. It is nearly three months since she went out with us;
and she never goes out without us."

"No, no; go alone, my child. Enjoy your Sunday, 'tis little enough."

"You know very well, Agricola," said the sempstress, blushing up to the eyes, "that I ought
not to go out with you and your mother again."

"Why not, madame? May I ask, without impropriety, the cause of this refusal?" said Agricola gayly.

The poor girl smiled sadly, and replied, "Because I will not expose you to a quarrel on my
account, Agricola."

"Forgive me," said Agricola, in a tone of sincere grief, and he struck his forehead vexedly.

To this Mother Bunch alluded sometimes, but very rarely, for she observed punctilious discretion.
The girl had gone out with Agricola and his mother. Such occasions were, indeed, holidays for
her. Many days and nights had she toiled hard to procure a decent bonnet and shawl, that she
might not do discredit to her friends. The five or six days of holidays, thus spent arm in
arm with him whom she adored in secret, formed the sum of her happy days.

Taking their last walk, a coarse, vulgar man elbowed her so rudely that the poor girl could
not refrain from a cry of terror, and the man retorted it by saying,-"What are you rolling
your hump in my way for, stoopid?"

Agricola, like his father, had the patience which force and courage give to the truly brave;
but he was extremely quick when it became necessary to avenge an insult. Irritated at the vulgarity
of this man, Agricola left his mother's arm to inflict on the brute, who was of his own age,
size, and force, two vigorous blows, such as the powerful arm and huge fist of a blacksmith
never before inflicted on human face. The villain attempted to return it, and Agricola repeated
the correction, to the amusement of the crowd, and the fellow slunk away amidst a deluge of
hisses. This adventure made Mother Bunch say she would not go out with Agricola again, in order
to save him any occasion of quarrel. We may conceive the blacksmith's regret at having thus
unwittingly revived the memory of this circumstance,--more painful, alas! for Mother Bunch
than Agricola could imagine, for she loved him passionately, and her infirmity had been the
cause of that quarrel. Notwithstanding his strength and resolution, Agricola was childishly
sensitive; and, thinking how painful that thought must be to the poor girl, a large tear filled
his eyes, and, holding out his hands, he said, in a brotherly tone, "Forgive my heedlessness!
Come, kiss me." And he gave her thin, pale cheeks two hearty kisses.

The poor girl's lips turned pale at this cordial caress; and her heart beat so violently that
she was obliged to lean against the corner of the table.

"Come, you forgive me, do you not?" said Agricola.

"Yes! yes!" she said, trying to subdue her emotion; "but the recollection of that quarrel pains
me--I was so alarmed on your account; if the crowd had sided with that man!"

"Alas!" said Frances, coming to the sewing-girl's relief, without knowing it, "I was never
so afraid in all my life!"

"Oh, mother," rejoined Agricola, trying to change a conversation which had now become disagreeable
for the sempstress, "for the wife of a horse grenadier of the Imperial Guard, you have not
much courage. Oh, my brave father; I can't believe he is really coming! The very thought turns
me topsy-turvy!"

"Heaven grant he may come," said Frances, with a sigh.

"God grant it, mother. He will grant it, I should think. Lord knows, you have had masses enough
said for his return."

"Agricola, my child," said Frances, interrupting her son, and shaking her head sadly, "do not
speak in that way. Besides, you are talking of your father."

"Well, I'm in for it this evening. 'Tis your turn now; positively, I am growing stupid, or
going crazy. Forgive me, mother! forgive! That's the only word I can get out to-night. You
know that, when I do let out on certain subjects, it is because I can't help it; for I know
well the pain it gives you."

"You do not offend me, my poor, dear, misguided boy."

"It comes to the same thing; and there is nothing so bad as to offend one's mother; and, with
respect to what I said about father's return, I do not see that we have any cause to doubt it."

"But we have not heard from him for four months."

"You know, mother, in his letter--that is, in the letter which he dictated (for you remember
that, with the candor of an old soldier, he told us that, if he could read tolerably well,
he could not write); well, in that letter he said we were not to be anxious about him; that
he expected to be in Paris about the end of January, and would send us word, three or four
days before, by what road he expected to arrive, that I might go and meet him."

"True, my child; and February is come, and no news yet."

"The greater reason why we should wait patiently. But I'll tell you more: I should not be surprised
if our good Gabriel were to come back about the same time. His last letter from America makes
me hope so. What pleasure, mother, should all the family be together!"

"Oh, yes, my child! It would be a happy day for me."

"And that day will soon come, trust me."

"Do you remember your father, Agricola?" inquired Mother Bunch.

"To tell the truth, I remember most his great grenadier's shako and moustache, which used to
frighten me so, that nothing but the red ribbon of his cross of honor, on the white facings
of his uniform, and the shining handle of his sabre, could pacify me; could it, mother? But
what is the matter? You are weeping!"

"Alas! poor Baudoin! What he must suffer at being separated from us at his age--sixty and past!
Alas! my child, my heart breaks, when I think that he comes home only to change one kind of
poverty for another."

"What do you mean?"

"Alas! I earn nothing now."

"Why, what's become of me? Isn't there a room here for you and for him; and a table for you
too? Only, my good mother, since we are talking of domestic affairs," added the blacksmith,
imparting increased tenderness to his tone, that he might not shock his mother, "when he and
Gabriel come home, you won't want to have any more masses said, and tapers burned for them,
will you? Well, that saving will enable father to have tobacco to smoke, and his bottle of
wine every day. Then, on Sundays, we will take a nice dinner at the eating-house."

A knocking at the door disturbed Agricola.

"Come in," said he. Instead of doing so, some one half-opened the door, and, thrusting in an
arm of a pea-green color, made signs to the blacksmith.

"'Tis old Loriot, the pattern of dyers," said Agricola; "come in, Daddy, no ceremony."

"Impossible, my lad; I am dripping with dye from head to foot; I should cover missus's floor
with green."

"So much the better. It will remind me of the fields I like so much."

"Without joking, Agricola, I must speak to you immediately."

"About the spy, eh? Oh, be easy; what's he to us?"

"No; I think he's gone; at any rate, the fog is so thick I can't see him. But that's not it--come,
come quickly! It is very important," said the dyer, with a mysterious look; "and only concerns
you."

"Me, only?" said Agricola, with surprise. "What can it be.

"Go and see, my child," said Frances.

"Yes, mother; but the deuce take me if I can make it out."

And the blacksmith left the room, leaving his mother with Mother Bunch.

CHAPTER XXX.

THE RETURN.

In five minutes Agricola returned; his face was pale and agitated--his eyes glistened with
tears, and his hands trembled; but his countenance expressed extraordinary happiness and emotion.
He stood at the door for a moment, as if too much affected to accost his mother.

Frances's sight was so bad that she did not immediately perceive the change her son's countenance
had undergone.

"Well, my child--what is it?" she inquired.

Before the blacksmith could reply, Mother Bunch, who had more discernment, exclaimed: "Goodness,
Agricola--how pale you are! Whatever is the matter?"

"Mother," said the artisan, hastening to Frances, without replying to the sempstress,--"mother,
expect news that will astonish you; but promise me you will be calm."

"What do you mean? How you tremble! Look at me! Mother Bunch was right--you are quite pale."

"My kind mother!" and Agricola, kneeling before Frances, took both her hands in his--"you must--you
do not know,--but--"

The blacksmith could not go on. Tears of joy interrupted his speech.

"You weep, my dear child! Your tears alarm me. 'What is the matter?--you terrify me!"

"Oh, no, I would not terrify you; on the contrary," said Agricola, drying his eyes--"you will
be so happy. But, again, you must try and command your feelings, for too much joy is as hurtful
as too much grief."

"What?"

"Did I not say true, when I said he would come?"

"Father!" cried Frances. She rose from her seat; but her surprise and emotion were so great
that she put one hand to her heart to still its beating, and then she felt her strength fail.
Her son sustained her, and assisted her to sit down.

Mother Bunch, till now, had stood discreetly apart, witnessing from a distance the scene which
completely engrossed Agricola and his mother. But she now drew near timidly, thinking she might
be useful; for Frances changed color more and more.

"Come, courage, mother," said the blacksmith; "now the shock is over, you have only to enjoy
the pleasure of seeing my father."

"My poor man! after eighteen years' absence. Oh, I cannot believe it," said Frances, bursting
into tears. "Is it true? Is it, indeed, true?"

"So true, that if you will promise me to keep as calm as you can, I will tell you when you
may see him."

"Soon--may I not?"

"Yes; soon."

"But when will he arrive?"

"He may arrive any minute--to-morrow--perhaps to-day."

"To-day!"

"Yes, mother! Well, I must tell you all--he has arrived."

"He--he is--" Frances could not articulate the word.

"He was downstairs just now. Before coming up, he sent the dyer to apprise me that I might
prepare you; for my brave father feared the surprise might hurt you."

"Oh, heaven!"

"And now," cried the blacksmith, in an accent of indescribable joy--"he is there, waiting!
Oh, mother! for the last ten minutes I have scarcely been able to contain myself--my heart
is bursting with joy." And running to the door, he threw it open.

Dagobert, holding Rose and Blanche by the hand, stood on the threshold. Instead of rushing
to her husband's arms, Frances fell on her knees in prayer. She thanked heaven with profound
gratitude for hearing her prayers, and thus accepting her offerings. During a second, the actors
of this scene stood silent and motionless. Agricola, by a sentiment of respect and delicacy,
which struggled violently with his affection, did not dare to fall on his father's neck. He
waited with constrained impatience till his mother had finished her prayer.

The soldier experienced the same feeling as the blacksmith; they understood each other. The
first glance exchanged by father and son expressed their affection--their veneration for that
excellent woman, who in the fulness of her religious fervor, forgot, perhaps, too much the
creature for the Creator.

Rose and Blanche, confused and affected, looked with interest on the kneeling woman; while
Mother Bunch, shedding in silence tears of joy at the thought of Agricola's happiness, withdrew
into the most obscure corner of the room, feeling that she was a stranger, and necessarily
out of place in that family meeting. Frances rose, and took a step towards her husband, who
received her in his arms. There was a moment of solemn silence. Dagobert and Frances said not
a word. Nothing could be heard but a few sighs, mingled with sighs of joy. And, when the aged
couple looked up, their expression was calm, radiant, serene; for the full and complete enjoyment
of simple and pure sentiments never leaves behind a feverish and violent agitation.

"My children," said the soldier, in tones of emotion, presenting the orphans to Frances, who,
after her first agitation, had surveyed them with astonishment, "this is my good and worthy
wife; she will be to the daughters of General Simon what I have been to them."

"Then, madame, you will treat us as your children," said Rose, approaching Frances with her sister.

"The daughters of General Simon!" cried Dagobert's wife, more and more astonished.

"Yes, my dear Frances; I have brought them from afar not without some difficulty; but I will
tell you that by and by."

"Poor little things! One would take them for two angels, exactly alike!" said Frances, contemplating
the orphans with as much interest as admiration.

"Now--for us," cried Dagobert, turning to his son.

"At last," rejoined the latter.

We must renounce all attempts to describe the wild joy of Dagobert and his son, and the crushing
grip of their hands, which Dagobert interrupted only to look in Agricola's face; while he rested
his hands on the young blacksmith's broad shoulders that he might see to more advantage his
frank masculine countenance, and robust frame. Then he shook his hand again, exclaiming, "He's
a fine fellow--well built--what a good-hearted look he has!"

From a corner of the room Mother Bunch enjoyed Agricola's happiness; but she feared that her
presence, till then unheeded, would be an intrusion. She wished to withdraw unnoticed, but
could not do so. Dagobert and his son were between her and the door; and she stood unable to
take her eyes from the charming faces of Rose and Blanche. She had never seen anything so winsome;
and the extraordinary resemblance of the sisters increased her surprise. Then, their humble
mourning revealing that they were poor, Mother Bunch involuntarily felt more sympathy towards them.

"Dear children! They are cold; their little hands are frozen, and, unfortunately, the fire
is out," said Frances, She tried to warm the orphans' hands in hers, while Dagobert and his
son gave themselves up to the feelings of affection, so long restrained.

As soon as Frances said that the fire was out, Mother Bunch hastened to make herself useful,
as an excuse for her presence; and, going to the cupboard, where the charcoal and wood were
kept, she took some small pieces, and, kneeling before the stove, succeeded, by the aid of
a few embers that remained, in relighting the fire, which soon began to draw and blaze. Filling
a coffee-pot with water, she placed it on the stove, presuming that the orphans required some
warm drink. The sempstress did all this with so much dexterity and so little noise--she was
naturally so forgotten amidst the emotions of the scene--that Frances, entirely occupied with
Rose and Blanche, only perceived the fire when she felt its warmth diffusing round, and heard
the boiling water singing in the coffee-pot. This phenomenon--fire rekindling of itself--did
not astonish Dagobert's wife then, so wholly was she taken up in devising how she could lodge
the maidens; for Dagobert as we have seen, had not given her notice of their arrival.

Suddenly a loud bark was heard three or four times at the door.

"Hallo! there's Spoil-sport," said Dagobert, letting in his dog; "he wants to come in to brush
acquaintance with the family too."

The dog came in with a bound, and in a second was quite at home. After having rubbed Dagobert's
hand with his muzzle, he went in turns to greet Rose and Blanche, and also Frances and Agricola;
but seeing that they took but little notice of him, he perceived Mother Bunch, who stood apart,
in an obscure corner of the room, and carrying out the popular saying, "the friends of our
friends are our friends," he went and licked the hands of the young workwoman, who was just
then forgotten by all. By a singular impulse, this action affected the girl to tears; she patted
her long, thin, white hand several times on the head of the intelligent dog. Then, finding
that she could be no longer useful (for she had done all the little services she deemed in
her power), she took the handsome flower Agricola had given her, opened the door gently, and
went away so discreetly that no one noticed her departure. After this exchange of mutual affection,
Dagobert, his wife, and son, began to think of the realities of life.

"Poor Frances," said the soldier, glancing at Rose and Blanche, "you did not expect such a
pretty surprise!"

"I am only sorry, my friend," replied Frances, "that the daughters of General Simon will not
have a better lodging than this poor room; for with Agricola's garret--"

"It composes our mansion," interrupted Dagobert; "there are handsomer, it must be confessed.
But be at ease; these young ladies are drilled into not being hard to suit on that score. To-morrow,
I and my boy will go arm and arm, and I'll answer for it he won't walk the more upright and
straight of the two, and find out General Simon's father, at M. Hardy's factory, to talk about
business."

"To-morrow," said Agricola to Dagobert, "you will not find at the factory either M. Hardy or
Marshall Simon's father."

"What is that you say, my lad?" cried Dagobert, hastily, "the Marshal!"

"To be sure; since 1830, General Simon's friends have secured him the title and rank which
the emperor gave him at the battle of Ligny."

"Indeed!" cried Dagobert, with emotion, "but that ought not to surprise me; for, after all,
it is just; and when the emperor said a thing, the least they can do is to let it abide. But
it goes all the same to my heart; it makes me jump again."

Addressing the sisters, he said: "Do you hear that, my children? You arrive in Paris the daughters
of a Duke and Marshal of France. One would hardly think it, indeed, to see you in this room,
my poor little duchesses! But patience; all will go well. Ah, father Simon must have been very
glad to hear that his son was restored to his rank! eh, my lad?"

"He told us he would renounce all kinds of ranks and titles to see his son again; for it was
during the general's absence that his friends obtained this act of justice. But they expect
Marshal Simon every moment, for the last letter from India announced his departure."

At these words Rose and Blanche looked at each other; and their eyes filled with tears.

"Heaven be praised! These children rely on his return; but why shall we not find M. Hardy and
father Simon at the factory to-morrow?"

"Ten days ago, they went to examine and study an English mill established in the south; but
we expect them back every day."

"The deuce! that's vexing; I relied on seeing the general's father, to talk over some important
matters with him. At any rate, they know where to write to him. So to-morrow you will let him
know, my lad, that his granddaughters are arrived. In the mean time, children," added the soldier,
to Rose and Blanche, "my good wife will give you her bed and you must put up with the chances
of war. Poor things! they will not be worse off here than they were on the journey."

"You know we shall always be well off with you and madame," said Rose.

"Besides, we only think of the pleasure of being at length in Paris, since here we are to find
our father," added Blanche.

"That hope gives you patience, I know," said Dagobert, "but no matter! After all you have heard
about it, you ought to be finely surprised, my children. As yet, you have not found it the
golden city of your dreams, by any means. But, patience, patience; you'll find Paris not so
bad as it looks."

"Besides," said Agricola, "I am sure the arrival of Marshal Simon in Paris will change it for
you into a golden city."

"You are right, Agricola," said Rose, with a smile, "you have, indeed, guessed us."

"What! do you know my name?"

"Certainly, Agricola, we often talked about you with Dagobert; and latterly, too, with Gabriel,"
added Blanche.

"Gabriel!" cried Agricola and his mother, at the same time.

"Yes," replied Dagobert, making a sign of intelligence to the orphans, "we have lots to tell
you for a fortnight to come; and among other things, how we chanced to meet with Gabriel. All
I can now say is that, in his way, he is quite as good as my boy (I shall never be tired of
saying 'my boy'); and they ought to love each other like brothers. Oh, my brave, brave wife!"
said Dagobert, with emotion, "you did a good thing, poor as you were, taking the unfortunate
child--and bringing him up with your own."

"Don't talk so much about it, my dear; it was such a simple thing."

"You are right; but I'll make you amends for it by and by. 'Tis down to your account; in the
mean time, you will be sure to see him to-morrow morning."

"My dear brother arrived too!" cried the blacksmith; "who'll say, after this, that there are
not days set apart for happiness? How came you to meet him, father?"

"I'll tell you all, by and by, about when and how we met Gabriel; for if you expect to sleep,
you are mistaken. You'll give me half your room, and a fine chat we'll have. Spoil-sport will
stay outside of this door; he is accustomed to sleep at the children's door."

"Dear me, love, I think of nothing. But, at such a moment, if you and the young ladies wish
to sup, Agricola will fetch something from the cook-shop."

"What do you say, children?"

"No, thank you, Dagobert, we are not hungry; we are too happy."

"You will take a little wine and water, sweetened, nice and hot, to warm you a little, my dear
young ladies," said Frances; "unfortunately, I have nothing else to offer you."

"You are right, Frances; the dear children are tired, and want to go to bed; while they do
so, I'll go to my boy's room, and, before Rose and Blanche are awake, I will come down and
converse with you, just to give Agricola a respite."

A knock was now heard at the door.

"It is good Mother Bunch come to see if we want her," said Agricola.

"But I think she was here when my husband came in," added Frances.

"Right, mother; and the good girl left lest she should be an intruder: she is so thoughtful.
But no--no--it is not she who knocks so loud."

"Go and see who it is, then, Agricola."

Before the blacksmith could reach the door, a man decently dressed, with a respectable air,
entered the room, and glanced rapidly round, looking for a moment at Rose and Blanche.

"Allow me to observe, sir," said Agricola, "that after knocking, you might have waited till
the door was opened, before you entered. Pray, what is your business?"

"Pray excuse me, sir," said the man, very politely, and speaking slowly, perhaps to prolong
his stay in the room: "I beg a thousand pardons--I regret my intrusion--I am ashamed--"

"Well, you ought to be, sir," said Agricola, with impatience, "what do you want?"

"Pray, sir, does not Miss Soliveau, a deformed needlewoman, live here?"

"No, sir; upstairs," said Agricola.

"Really, sir," cried the polite man, with low bows, "I am quite abroad at my blunder: I thought
this was the room of that young person. I brought her proposals for work from a very respectable
party."

"It is very late, sir," said Agricola, with surprise. "But that young person is as one of our
family. Call to-morrow; you cannot see her to night; she is gone to bed."

"Then, sir, I again beg you to excuse--"

"Enough, sir," said Agricola, taking a step towards the door.

"I hope, madame and the young ladies, as well as this gent, will be assured that--"

"If you go on much longer making excuses, sir, you will have to excuse the length of your excuses;
and it is time this came to an end!"

Rose and Blanche smiled at these words of Agricola; while Dagobert rubbed his moustache with pride.

"What wit the boy has!" said he aside to his wife. "But that does not astonish you--you are
used to it."

During this speech, the ceremonious person withdrew, having again directed a long inquiring
glance to the sisters, and to Agricola and Dagobert.

In a few minutes after, Frances having spread a mattress on the ground for herself, and put
the whitest sheets on her bed for the orphans, assisted them to undress with maternal solicitude,
Dagobert and Agricola having previously withdrawn to their garret. Just as the blacksmith,
who preceded his father with a light, passed before the door of Mother Bunch's room, the latter,
half concealed in the shade, said to him rapidly, in a low tone:

"Agricola, great danger threatens you: I must speak to you."

These words were uttered in so hasty and low a voice that Dagobert did not hear them; but as
Agricola stopped suddenly, with a start, the old soldier said to him,

"Well, boy, what is it?"

"Nothing, father," said the blacksmith, turning round; "I feared I did not light you well."

"Oh, stand at ease about that; I have the legs and eyes of fifteen to night;" and the soldier,
not noticing his son's surprise, went into the little room where they were both to pass the night.

On leaving the house, after his inquiries about Mother Bunch, the over polite Paul Pry slunk
along to the end of Brise-Miche Street. He advanced towards a hackney-coach drawn up on the
Cloitre Saint-Merry Square.

In this carriage lounged Rodin, wrapped in a cloak.

"Well?" said he, in an inquiring tone.

"The two girls and the man with gray moustache went directly to Frances Baudoin's; by listening
at the door, I learnt that the sisters will sleep with her, in that room, to-night; the old
man with gray moustache will share the young blacksmith's room."

"Very well," said Rodin.

"I did not dare insist on seeing the deformed workwoman this evening on the subject of the
Bacchanal Queen; I intend returning to-morrow, to learn the effect of the letter she must have
received this evening by the post about the young blacksmith."

"Do not fail! And now you will call, for me, on Frances Baudoin's confessor, late as it is;
you will tell him that I am waiting for him at Rue du Milieu des Ursins--he must not lose a
moment. Do you come with him. Should I not be returned, he will wait for me. You will tell
him it is on a matter of great moment."

"All shall be faithfully executed," said the ceremonious man, cringing to Rodin, as the coach
drove quickly away.

CHAPTER XXXI.

AGRICOLA AND MOTHER BUNCH.

Within one hour after the different scenes which have just been described the most profound
silence reigned in the soldier's humble dwelling. A flickering light, which played through
two panes of glass in a door, betrayed that Mother Bunch had not yet gone to sleep; for her
gloomy recess, without air or light, was impenetrable to the rays of day, except by this door,
opening upon a narrow and obscure passage, connected with the roof. A sorry bed, a table, an
old portmanteau, and a chair, so nearly filled this chilling abode, that two persons could
not possibly be seated within it, unless one of them sat upon the side of the bed.

The magnificent and precious flower that Agricola had given to the girl was carefully stood
up in a vessel of water, placed upon the table on a linen cloth, diffusing its sweet odor around,
and expanding its purple calix in the very closet, whose plastered walls, gray and damp, were
feebly lighted by the rays of an attenuated candle. The sempstress, who had taken off no part
of her dress, was seated upon her bed--her looks were downcast, and her eyes full of tears.
She supported herself with one hand resting on the bolster; and, inclining towards the door,
listened with painful eagerness, every instant hoping to hear the footsteps of Agricola. The
heart of the young sempstress beat violently; her face, usually very pale, was now partially
flushed--so exciting was the emotion by which she was agitated. Sometimes she cast her eyes
with terror upon a letter which she held in her hand, a letter that had been delivered by post
in the course of the evening, and which had been placed by the housekeeper (the dyer) upon
the table, while she was rendering some trivial domestic services during the recognitions of
Dagobert and his family.

After some seconds, Mother Bunch heard a door, very near her own, softly opened.

"There he is at last!" she exclaimed, and Agricola immediately entered.

"I waited till my father went to sleep," said the blacksmith, in a low voice, his physiognomy
evincing much more curiosity than uneasiness. "But what is the matter, my good sister? How
your countenance is changed! You weep! What has happened? About what danger would you speak to me?"

"Hush! Read this!" said she, her voice trembling with emotion, while she hastily presented
to him the open letter. Agricola held it towards the light, and read what follows:

"A person who has reasons for concealing himself, but who knows the sisterly interest you take
in the welfare of Agricola Baudoin, warns you. That young and worthy workman will probably
be arrested in the course of to-morrow."

"I!" exclaimed Agricola, looking at Mother Bunch with an air of stupefied amazement. "What
is the meaning of all this?"

"Read on!" quickly replied the sempstress, clasping her hands.

Agricola resumed reading, scarcely believing the evidence of his eyes:-"The song, entitled
'Working-men Freed,' has been declared libellous. Numerous copies of it have been found among
the papers of a secret society, the leaders of which are about to be incarcerated, as being
concerned in the Rue des Prouvaires conspiracy."

"Alas!" said the girl, melting into tears, "now I see it all. The man who was lurking about
below, this evening, who was observed by the dyer, was, doubtless, a spy, lying in wait for
you coming home."

"Nonsense!" exclaimed Agricola. "This accusation is quite ridiculous! Do not torment yourself.
I never trouble myself with politics. My verses breathe nothing but philanthropy. Am I to blame,
if they have been found among the papers of a secret society?" Agricola disdainfully threw
the letter upon the table.

"Read! pray read!" said the other; "read on."

"If you wish it," said Agricola, "I will; no time is lost."

He resumed the reading of the letter:

"A warrant is about to be issued against Agricola Baudoin. There is mo doubt of his innocence
being sooner or later made clear; but it will be well if he screen himself for a time as much
as possible from pursuit, in order that he may escape a confinement of two or three months
previous to trial--an imprisonment which would be a terrible blow for his mother, whose sole
support he is.

"A SINCERE FRIEND, who is compelled to remain unknown."

After a moment's silence, the blacksmith raised his head; his countenance resumed its serenity;
and laughing, he said: "Reassure yourself, good Mother Bunch, these jokers have made a mistake
by trying their games on me. It is plainly an attempt at making an April-fool of me before
the time."

"Agricola, for the love of heaven!" said the girl, in a supplicating tone; "treat not the warning
thus lightly. Believe in my forebodings, and listen to my advice."

"I tell you again, my good girl," replied Agricola, "that it is two months since my song was
published. It is not in any way political; indeed, if it were, they would not have waited till
now before coming down on me."

"But," said the other, "you forget that new events have arisen. It is scarcely two days since
the conspiracy was discovered, in this very neighborhood, in the Rue des Prouvaires. And,"
continued she, "if the verses, though perhaps hitherto unnoticed, have now been found in the
possession of the persons apprehended for this conspiracy, nothing more is necessary to compromise
you in the plot."

"Compromise me!" said Agricola; "my verses! in which I only praise the love of labor and of
goodness! To arrest me for that! If so, justice would be but a blind noodle. That she might
grope her way, it would be necessary to furnish her with a dog and a pilgrim's staff to guide
her steps."

"Agricola," resumed Mother Bunch; overwhelmed with anxiety and terror on hearing the blacksmith
jest at such a moment, "I conjure you to listen to me! No doubt you uphold in the verses the
sacred love of labor; but you do also grievously deplore and deprecate the unjust lot of the
poor laborers, devoted as they are, without hope, to all the miseries of life; you recommend,
indeed, only fraternity among men; but your good and noble heart vents its indignation, at
the same time, against the selfish and the wicked. In fine, you fervently hasten on, with the
ardor of your wishes, the emancipation of all the artisans who, less fortunate than you, have
not generous M. Hardy for employer. Say, Agricola, in these times of trouble, is there anything
more necessary to compromise you than that numerous copies of your song have been found in
possession of the persons who have been apprehended?"

Agricola was moved by these affectionate and judicious expressions of an excellent creature,
who reasoned from her heart; and he began to view with more seriousness the advice which she
had given him.

Perceiving that she had shaken him, the sewing-girl went on to say: "And then, bear your fellow-workman,
Remi, in recollection."

"Remi!" said Agricola, anxiously.

"Yes," resumed the sempstress; "a letter of his, a letter in itself quite insignificant, was
found in the house of a person arrested last year for conspiracy; and Remi, in consequence,
remained a month in prison."

"That is true, but the injustice of his implication was easily shown, and he was set at liberty."

"Yes, Agricola: but not till he had lain a month in prison; and that has furnished the motive
of the person who advised you to conceal yourself! A month in prison! Good heavens! Agricola,
think of that! and your mother."

These words made a powerful impression upon Agricola. He took up the letter and again read
it attentively.

"And the man who has been lurking all this evening about the house?" proceeded she. "I constantly
recall that circumstance, which cannot be naturally accounted for. Alas! what a blow it would
be for your father, and poor mother, who is incapable of earning anything. Are you not now
their only resource? Oh! consider, then, what would become of them without you--without your
labor!"

"It would indeed be terrible," said Agricola, impatiently casting the letter upon the table.
"What you have said concerning Remi is too true. He was as innocent as I am: yet an error of
justice, an involuntary error though it be, is not the less cruel. But they don't commit a
man without hearing him."

"But they arrest him first, and hear him afterwards," said Mother Bunch, bitterly; "and then,
after a month or two, they restore him his liberty. And if he have a wife and children, whose
only means of living is his daily labor, what becomes of them while their only supporter is
in prison? They suffer hunger, they endure cold, and they weep!"

At these simple and pathetic words, Agricola trembled.

"A month without work," he said, with a sad and thoughtful air. "And my mother, and father,
and the two young ladies who make part of our family until the arrival in Paris of their father,
Marshal Simon. Oh! you are right. That thought, in spite of myself, affrights me!"

"Agricola!" exclaimed the girl impetuously; "suppose you apply to M. Hardy; he is so good,
and his character is so much esteemed and honored, that, if he offered bail for you, perhaps
they would give up their persecution?"

"Unfortunately," replied Agricola, "M. Hardy is absent; he is on a journey with Marshal Simon."

After a silence of some time, Agricola, striving to surmount his fear, added: "But no! I cannot
give credence to this letter. After all, I had rather await what may come. I'll at least have
the chance of proving my innocence on my first examination: for indeed, my good sister, whether
it be that I am in prison or that I fly to conceal myself, my working for my family will be
equally prevented."

"Alas! that is true," said the poor girl; "what is to be done! Oh, what is to be done?"

"My brave father," said Agricola to himself, "if this misfortune happen to-morrow, what an
awakening it will be for him, who came here to sleep so joyously!" The blacksmith buried his
face in his hands.

Unhappily Mother Bunch's fears were too well-founded, for it will be recollected that at that
epoch of the year 1832, before and after the Rue des Prouvaires conspiracy, a very great number
of arrests had been made among the working classes, in consequence of a violent reaction against
democratical ideas.

Suddenly, the girl broke the silence which had been maintained for some seconds. A blush colored
her features, which bore the impressions of an indefinable expression of constraint, grief,
and hope.

"Agricola, you are saved!"

"What say you?" he asked.

"The young lady, so beautiful, so good, who gave you this flower" (she showed it to the blacksmith)
"who has known how to make reparation with so much delicacy for having made a painful offer,
cannot but have a generous heart. You must apply to her--"

With these words which seemed to be wrung from her by a violent effort over herself, great
tears rolled down her cheeks. For the first time in her life she experienced a feeling of grievous
jealousy. Another woman was so happy as to have the power of coming to the relief of him whom
she idolized; while she herself, poor creature, was powerless and wretched.

"Do you think so?" exclaimed Agricola surprised. "But what could be done with this young lady?"

"Did she not say to you," answered Mother Bunch, "'Remember my name; and in all circumstances
address yourself to me?'"

"She did indeed!" replied Agricola.

"This young lady, in her exalted position, ought to have powerful connections who will be able
to protect and defend you. Go to her to morrow morning; tell her frankly what has happened,
and request her support."

"But tell me, my good sister, what it is you wish me to do?"

"Listen. I remember that, in former times, my father told us that he had saved one of his friends
from being put in prison, by becoming surety for him. It will be easy for you so to convince
this young lady of your innocence, that she will be induced to become surety; and after that,
you will have nothing more to fear."

"My poor child!" said Agricola, "to ask so great a service from a person to whom one is almost
unknown is hard."

"Believe me, Agricola," said the other sadly, "I would never counsel what could possibly lower
you in the eyes of any one, and above all--do you understand?--above all, in the eyes of this
young lady. I do not propose that you should ask money from her; but only that she should give
surety for you, in order that you may have the liberty of continuing at your employment, so
that the family may not be without resources. Believe me, Agricola, that such a request is
in no respect inconsistent with what is noble and becoming upon your part. The heart of the
young lady is generous. She will comprehend your position. The required surety will be as nothing
to her; while to you it will be everything, and will even be the very life to those who depend
upon you."

"You are right, my good sister," said Agricola, with sadness and dejection. "It is perhaps
worth while to risk taking this step. If the young lady consent to render me this service,
and if giving surety will indeed preserve me from prison, I shall be prepared for every event.
But no, no!" added he, rising, "I'd never dare to make the request to her! What right have
I to do so? What is the insignificant service that I rendered her, when compared with that
which I should solicit from her?"

"Do you imagine then, Agricola, that a generous spirit measures the services which ought to
be rendered, by those previously received? Trust to me respecting a matter which is an affair
of the heart. I am, it is true, but a lowly creature, and ought not to compare myself with
any other person. I am nothing, and I can do nothing. Nevertheless, I am sure--yes, Agricola,
I am sure--that this young lady, who is so very far above me, will experience the same feelings
that I do in this affair; yes, like me, she will at once comprehend that your position is a
cruel one; and she will do with joy, with happiness, with thankfulness, that which I would
do, if, alas! I could do anything more than uselessly consume myself with regrets."

In spite of herself, she pronounced the last words with an expression so heart-breaking--there
was something so moving in the comparison which this unfortunate creature, obscure and disdained,
infirm and miserable, made of herself with Adrienne de Cardoville, the very type of resplendent
youth, beauty, and opulence--that Agricola was moved even to tears; and, holding out one of
his hands to the speaker, he said to her, tenderly, "How very good you are; how full of nobleness,
good feeling, and delicacy!"

"Unhappily," said the weeping girl, "I can do nothing more than advise."

"And your counsels shall be followed out, my sister dear. They are those of a soul the most
elevated I have ever known. Yes, you have won me over into making this experiment, by persuading
me that the heart of Miss de Cardoville is perhaps equal in value to your own!"

At this charming and sincere assimilation of herself to Miss Adrienne, the sempstress forgot
almost everything she had suffered, so exquisitely sweet and consoling were her emotions. If
some poor creatures, fatally devoted to sufferings, experience griefs of which the world knows
naught, they sometimes, too, are cheered by humble and timid joys, of which the world is equally
ignorant. The least word of true tenderness and affection, which elevates them in their own
estimation, is ineffably blissful for these unfortunate beings, habitually consigned, not only
to hardships and to disdain, but even to desolating doubts, and distrust of themselves.

"Then it is agreed that you will go, to-morrow morning to this young lady's house?" exclaimed
Mother Bunch, trembling with a new-born hope. "And," she quickly added, "at break of day I'll
go down to watch at the street-door, to see if there be anything suspicious, and to apprise
you of what I perceive."

"Good, excellent girl!" exclaimed Agricola, with increasing emotion.

"It will be necessary to endeavor to set off before the wakening of your father," said the
hunchback. "The quarter in which the young lady dwells, is so deserted, that the mere going
there will almost serve for your present concealment."

"I think I hear the voice of my father," said Agricola suddenly.

In truth, the little apartment was so near Agricola's garret, that he and the sempstress, listening,
heard Dagobert say in the dark:

"Agricola, is it thus that you sleep, my boy? Why, my first sleep is over; and my tongue itches
deucedly."

"Go quick, Agricola!" said Mother Bunch; "your absence would disquiet him. On no account go
out to-morrow morning, before I inform you whether or not I shall have seen anything suspicious."

"Why, Agricola, you are not here?" resumed Dagobert, in a louder voice.

"Here I am, father," said the smith, while going out of the sempstress's apartment, and entering
the garret, to his father.

"I have been to fasten the shutter of a loft that the wind agitated, lest its noise should
disturb you."

"Thanks, my boy; but it is not noise that wakes me," said Dagobert, gayly; "it is an appetite,
quite furious, for a chat with you. Oh, my dear boy, it is the hungering of a proud old man
of a father, who has not seen his son for eighteen years."

"Shall I light a candle, father?"

"No, no; that would be luxurious; let us chat in the dark. It will be a new pleasure for me
to see you to-morrow morning at daybreak. It will be like seeing you for the first time twice."
The door of Agricola's garret being now closed, Mother Bunch heard nothing more.

The poor girl, without undressing, threw herself upon the bed, and closed not an eye during
the night, painfully awaiting the appearance of day, in order that she might watch over the
safety of Agricola. However, in spite of her vivid anxieties for the morrow, she sometimes
allowed herself to sink into the reveries of a bitter melancholy. She compared the conversation
she had just had in the silence of night, with the man whom she secretly adored, with what
that conversation might have been, had she possessed some share of charms and beauty--had she
been loved as she loved, with a chaste and devoted flame! But soon sinking into belief that
she should never know the ravishing sweets of a mutual passion, she found consolation in the
hope of being useful to Agricola. At the dawn of day, she rose softly, and descended the staircase
with little noise, in order to see if anything menaced Agricola from without.

CHAPTER XXXII.

THE AWAKENING.

The weather, damp and foggy during a portion of the night, became clear and cold towards morning.
Through the glazed skylight of Agricola's garret, where he lay with his father, a corner of
the blue sky could be seen.

The apartment of the young blacksmith had an aspect as poor as the sewing-girl's. For its sole
ornament, over the deal table upon which Agricola wrote his poetical inspirations, there hung
suspended from a nail in the wall a portrait of Beranger--that immortal poet whom the people
revere and cherish, because his rare and transcendent genius has delighted to enlighten the
people, and to sing their glories and their reverses.

Although the day had only begun to dawn, Dagobert and Agricola had already risen. The latter
had sufficient self command to conceal his inquietude, for renewed reflection had again increased
his fears.

The recent outbreak in the Rue des Prouvaires had caused a great number of precautionary arrests;
and the discovery of numerous copies of Agricola's song, in the possession of one of the chiefs
of the disconcerted plot, was, in truth, calculated slightly to compromise the young blacksmith.
His father, however, as we have already mentioned, suspected not his secret anguish. Seated
by the side of his son, upon the edge of their mean little bed, the old soldier, by break of
day, had dressed and shaved with military care; he now held between his hands both those of
Agricola, his countenance radiant with joy, and unable to discontinue the contemplation of his boy.

"You will laugh at me, my dear boy," said Dagobert to his son; "but I wished the night to the
devil, in order that I might gaze upon you in full day, as I now see you. But all in good time;
I have lost nothing. Here is another silliness of mine; it delights me to see you wear moustaches.
What a splendid horse-grenadier you would have made! Tell me; have you never had a wish to
be a soldier?"

"I thought of mother!"

"That's right," said Dagobert: "and besides, I believe, after all, look ye, that the time of
the sword has gone by. We old fellows are now good for nothing, but to be put in a corner of
the chimney. Like rusty old carbines, we have had our day."

"Yes; your days of heroism and of glory," said Agricola with excitement; and then he added,
with a voice profoundly softened and agitated, "it is something good and cheering to be your son!"

"As to the good, I know nothing of that," replied Dagobert; "but as for the cheering, it ought
to be so; for I love you proudly. And I think this is but the beginning! What say you, Agricola?
I am like the famished wretches who have been some days without food. It is but by little and
little that they recover themselves, and can eat. Now, you may expect to be tasted, my boy,
morning and evening, and devoured during the day. No, I wish not to think that--not all the
day--no, that thought dazzles and perplexes me; and I am no longer myself."

These words of Dagobert caused a painful feeling to Agricola. He believed that they sprang
from a presentiment of the separation with which he was menaced.

"Well," continued Dagobert; "you are quite happy; M. Hardy is always good to you."

"Oh!" replied Agricola: "there is none in the world better, or more equitable and generous!
If you knew what wonders he has brought about in his factory! Compared to all others, it is
a paradise beside the stithies of Lucifer!"

"Indeed!" said Dagobert.

"You shall see," resumed Agricola, "what welfare, what joy, what affection, are displayed upon
the countenances of all whom he employs; who work with an ardent pleasure.

"This M. Hardy of yours must be an out-and-out magician," said Dagobert.

"He is, father, a very great magician. He has known how to render labor pleasant and attractive.
As for the pleasure, over and above good wages, he accords to us a portion of his profits according
to our deserts; whence you may judge of the eagerness with which we go to work. And that is
not all: he has caused large, handsome buildings to be erected, in which all his workpeople
find, at less expense than elsewhere, cheerful and salubrious lodgings, in which they enjoy
all the advantages of an association. But you shall see--I repeat--you shall see!"

"They have good reason to say, that Paris is the region of wonders," observed Dagobert.

"Well, behold me here again at last, never more to quit you, nor good mother!"

"No, father, we will never separate again," said Agricola, stifling a sigh. "My mother and
I will both try to make you forget all that you have suffered."

"Suffered!" exclaimed Dagobert, "who the deuce has suffered? Look me well in the face; and
see if I have a look of suffering! Bombs and bayonets! Since I have put my foot here, I feel
myself quite a young man again! You shall see me march soon: I bet that I tire you out! You
must rig yourself up something extra! Lord, how they will stare at us! I wager that in beholding
your black moustache and my gray one, folks will say, behold father and son! But let us settle
what we are to do with the day. You will write to the father of Marshal Simon, informing him
the his grand-daughters have arrived, and that it is necessary that he should hasten his return
to Paris; for he has charged himself with matters which are of great importance for them. While
you are writing, I will go down to say good-morning to my wife, and to the dear little ones.
We will then eat a morsel. Your mother will go to mass; for I perceive that she likes to be
regular at that: the good soul! no great harm, if it amuse her! and during her absence, we
will make a raid together."

"Father," said Agricola, with embarrassment, "this morning it is out of my power to accompany you."

"How! out of your power?" said Dagobert; "recollect this is Monday!"

"Yes, father," said Agricola, hesitatingly; "but I have promised to attend all the morning
in the workshop, to finish a job that is required in a hurry. If I fail to do so, I shall inflict
some injury upon M. Hardy. But I'll soon be at liberty."

"That alters the case," said Dagobert, with a sigh of regret. "I thought to make my first parade
through Paris with you this morning; but it must be deferred in favor of your work. It is sacred:
since it is that which sustains your mother. Nevertheless, it is vexatious, devilish vexatious.
And yet no--I am unjust. See how quickly one gets habituated to and spoilt by happiness. I
growl like a true grumbler, at a walk being put off for a few hours! I do this! I who, during
eighteen years, have only hoped to see you once more, without daring to reckon very much upon
it! Oh! I am but a silly old fool! Vive l'amour et cogni--I mean--my Agricola!" And, to console
himself, the old soldier gayly slapped his son's shoulder.

This seemed another omen of evil to the blacksmith; for he dreaded one moment to another lest
the fears of Mother Bunch should be realized. "Now that I have recovered myself," said Dagobert,
laughing, "let us speak of business. Know you where I find the addresses of all the notaries
in Paris?"

"I don't know; but nothing is more easy than to discover it."

"My reason is," resumed Dagobert, "that I sent from Russia by post, and by order of the mother
of the two children that I have brought here, some important papers to a Parisian notary. As
it was my duty to see this notary immediately upon my arrival, I had written his name and his
address in a portfolio, of which however, I have been robbed during my journey; and as I have
forgotten his devil of a name, it seems to me, that if I should see it again in the list of
notaries, I might recollect it."

Two knocks at the door of the garret made Agricola start. He involuntarily thought of a warrant
for his apprehension.

His father, who, at the sound of the knocking turned round his head, had not perceived his
emotion, and said with a loud voice: "Come in!" The door opened. It was Gabriel. He wore a
black cassock and a broad brimmed hat.

To recognize his brother by adoption, and to throw himself into his arms, were two movements
performed at once by Agricola--as quick as thought.--"My brother!" exclaimed Agricola.

"Agricola!" cried Gabriel.

"Gabriel!" responded the blacksmith.

"After so long an absence!" said the one.

"To behold you again!" rejoined the other.

Such were the words exchanged between the blacksmith and the missionary, while they were locked
in a close embrace.

Dagobert, moved and charmed by these fraternal endearments, felt his eyes become moist. There
was something truly touching in the affection of the young men--in their hearts so much alike,
and yet of characters and aspects so very different--for the manly countenance of Agricola
contrasted strongly with the delicacy and angelic physiognomy of Gabriel.

"I was forewarned by my father of your arrival," said the blacksmith at length. "I have been
expecting to see you; and my happiness has been a hundred times the greater, because I have
had all the pleasures of hoping for it."

"And my good mother?" asked Gabriel, in affectionately grasping the hands of Dagobert. "I trust
that you have found her in good health."

"Yes, my brave boy!" replied Dagobert; "and her health will have become a hundred times better,
now that we are all together. Nothing is so healthful as joy." Then addressing himself to Agricola,
who, forgetting his fear of being arrested, regarded the missionary with an expression of ineffable
affection, Dagobert added:

"Let it be remembered, that, with the soft cheek of a young girl, Gabriel has the courage of
a lion; I have already told with what intrepidity he saved the lives of Marshal Simon's daughters,
and tried to save mine also."

"But, Gabriel! what has happened to your forehead?" suddenly exclaimed Agricola, who for a
few seconds had been attentively examining the missionary.

Gabriel, having thrown aside his hat on entering, was now directly beneath the skylight of
the garret apartment, the bright light through which shone upon his sweet, pale countenance:
and the round scar, which extended from one eyebrow to the other, was therefore distinctly visible.

In the midst of the powerful and diversified emotion, and of the exciting events which so rapidly
followed the shipwreck on the rocky coast near Cardoville House, Dagobert, during the short
interview he then had with Gabriel, had not perceived the scar which seamed the forehead of
the young missionary. Now, partaking, however, of the surprise of his son, Dagobert said:

"Aye, indeed! how came this scar upon your brow?"

"And on his hands, too; see, dear father!" exclaimed the blacksmith, with renewed surprise,
while he seized one of the hands which the young priest held out towards him in order to tranquillize
his fears.

"Gabriel, my brave boy, explain this to us!" added Dagobert; "who has wounded you thus?" and
in his turn, taking the other hand of the missionary, he examined the scar upon it with the
eye of a judge of wounds, and then added, "In Spain, one of my comrades was found and taken
down alive from a cross, erected at the junction of several roads, upon which the monks had
crucified, and left him to die of hunger, thirst, and agony. Ever afterwards he bore scars
upon his hands, exactly similar to this upon your hand."

"My father is right!" exclaimed Agricola. "It is evident that your hands have been pierced
through! My poor brother!" and Agricola became grievously agitated.

"Do not think about it," said Gabriel, reddening with the embarrassment of modesty. "Having
gone as a missionary amongst the savages of the Rocky Mountains, they crucified me, and they
had begun to scalp me, when Providence snatched me from their hands."

"Unfortunate youth," said Dagobert; "without arms then? You had not a sufficient escort for
your protection?"

"It is not for such as me to carry arms." said Gabriel, sweetly smiling; "and we are never
accompanied by any escort."

"Well, but your companions, those who were along with you, how came it that they did not defend
you?" impetuously asked Agricola.

"I was alone, my dear brother."

"Alone!"

"Yes, alone; without even a guide."

"You alone! unarmed! in a barbarous country!" exclaimed Dagobert, scarcely crediting a step
so unmilitary, and almost distrusting his own sense of hearing.

"It was sublime!" said the young blacksmith and poet.

"The Christian faith," said Gabriel, with mild simplicity, "cannot be implanted by force or
violence. It is only by the power of persuasion that the gospel can be spread amongst poor
savages."

"But when persuasions fail!" said Agricola.

"Why, then, dear brother, one has but to die for the belief that is in him, pitying those who
have rejected it, and who have refused the blessings it offers to mankind."

There was a period of profound silence after the reply of Gabriel, which was uttered with simple
and touching pathos.

Dagobert was in his own nature too courageous not to comprehend a heroism thus calm and resigned;
and the old soldier, as well as his son, now contemplated Gabriel with the most earnest feelings
of mingled admiration and respect.

Gabriel, entirely free from the affection of false modesty, seemed quite unconscious of the
emotions which he had excited in the breasts of his two friends; and he therefore said to Dagobert,
"What ails you?"

"What ails me!" exclaimed the brave old soldier, with great emotion: "After having been for
thirty years in the wars, I had imagined myself to be about as courageous as any man. And now
I find I have a master! And that master is yourself!"

"I!" said Gabriel; "what do you mean? What have I done?"

"Thunder, don't you know that the brave wounds there" (the veteran took with transport both
of Gabriel's hands), "that these wounds are as glorious--are more glorious than our--than all
ours, as warriors by profession!"

"Yes! yes, my father speaks truth!" exclaimed Agricola; and he added, with enthusiasm, "Oh,
for such priests! How I love them! How I venerate them! How I am elevated by their charity,
their courage, their resignation!"

"I entreat you not to extol me thus," said Gabriel with embarrassment.

"Not extol you!" replied Dagobert. "Hanged if I shouldn't. When I have gone into the heat of
action, did I rush into it alone? Was I not under the eyes of my commanding officer? Were not
my comrades there along with me? In default of true courage, had I not the instinct of self
preservation to spur me on, without reckoning the excitement of the shouts and tumult of battle,
the smell of the gunpowder, the flourishes of the trumpets, the thundering of the cannon, the
ardor of my horse, which bounded beneath me as if the devil were at his tail? Need I state
that I also knew that the emperor was present, with his eye upon every one--the emperor, who,
in recompense for a hole being made in my tough hide, would give me a bit of lace or a ribbon,
as plaster for the wound. Thanks to all these causes, I passed for game. Fair enough! But are
you not a thousand times more game than I, my brave boy; going alone, unarmed, to confront
enemies a hundred times more ferocious than those whom we attacked--we, who fought in whole
squadrons, supported by artillery, bomb-shells, and case-shot?"

"Excellent father!" cried Agricola, "how noble of you to render to Gabriel this justice!"

"Oh, dear brother," said Gabriel, "his kindness to me makes him magnify what was quite natural
and simple!"

"Natural!" said the veteran soldier; "yes, natural for gallants who have hearts of the true
temper: but that temper is rare."

"Oh, yes, very rare," said Agricola; "for that kind of courage is the most admirable of all.
Most bravely did you seek almost certain death, alone, bearing the cross in hand as your only
weapon, to preach charity and Christian brotherhood. They seized you, tortured you; and you
await death and partly endure it, without complaint, without remonstrance, without hatred,
without anger, without a wish for vengeance; forgiveness issuing from your mouth, and a smile
of pity beaming upon your lips; and this in the depths of forests, where no one could witness
your magnanimity,--none could behold you--and without other desire, after you were rescued
than modestly to conceal blessed wounds under your black robe! My father is right, by Jove!
can you still contend that you are not as brave as he?"

"And besides, too," resumed Dagobert, "the dear boy did all that for a thankless paymaster;
for it is true, Agricola, that his wounds will never change his humble black robe of a priest
into the rich robe of a bishop!"

"I am not so disinterested as I may seem to be," said Gabriel to Dagobert, smiling meekly.
"If I am deemed worthy, a great recompense awaits me on high."

"As to all that, my boy," said Dagobert, "I do not understand it; and I will not argue about
it. I maintain it, that my old cross of honor would be at least as deservedly affixed to your
cassock as upon my uniform."

"But these recompenses are never conferred upon humble priests like Gabriel," said Agricola,
"and if you did know, dear father, how much virtue and valor is among those whom the highest
orders in the priesthood insolently call the inferior clergy,--the unseen merit and the blind
devotedness to be found amongst worthy, but obscure, country curates, who are inhumanly treated
and subjugated to a pitiless yoke by the lordly lawnsleeves! Like us, those poor priests are
worthy laborers in their vocation; and for them, also, all generous hearts ought to demand
enfranchisement! Sons of common people, like ourselves, and useful as we are, justice ought
to be rendered both to them and to us. Do I say right, Gabriel? You will not contradict it;
for you have told me, that your ambition would have been to obtain a small country curacy;
because you understand the good that you could work within it."

"My desire is still the same," said Gabriel sadly: "but unfortunately--" and then, as if he
wished to escape from a painful thought, and to change the conversation, he, addressing himself
to Dagobert, added: "Believe me: be more just than to undervalue your own courage by exalting
mine. Your courage must be very great--very great; for, after a battle, the spectacle of the
carnage must be truly terrible to a generous and feeling heart. We, at least, though we may
be killed, do not kill."

At these words of the missionary, the soldier drew himself up erect, looked upon Gabriel with
astonishment, and said, "This is most surprising!"

"What is?" inquired Agricola.

"What Gabriel has just told us," replied Dagobert, "brings to my mind what I experienced in
warfare on the battlefield in proportion as I advanced in years. Listen, my children: more
than once, on the night after a general engagement, I have been mounted as a vidette,--alone,--by
night,--amid the moonlight, on the field of battle which remained in our possession, and upon
which lay the bodies of seven or eight thousand of the slain, amongst whom were mingled the
slaughtered remains of some of my old comrades: and then this sad scene, when the profound
silence has restored me to my senses from the thirst for bloodshed and the delirious whirling
of my sword (intoxicated like the rest), I have said to myself, 'for what have these men been
killed?--FOR WHAT--FOR WHAT?' But this feeling, well understood as it was, hindered me not,
on the following morning, when the trumpets again sounded the charge, from rushing once more
to the slaughter. But the same thought always recurred when my arm became weary with carnage;
and after wiping my sabre upon the mane of my horse, I have said to myself, 'I have killed!--killed!!--killed!!!
and, FOR WHAT!!!'"

The missionary and the blacksmith exchanged looks on hearing the old soldier give utterance
to this singular retrospection of the past.

"Alas!" said Gabriel to him, "all generous hearts feel as you did during the solemn moments,
when the intoxication of glory has subsided, and man is left alone to the influence of the
good instincts planted in his bosom."

"And that should prove, my brave boy," rejoined Dagobert, "that you are greatly better than
I; for those noble instincts, as you call them, have never abandoned you. * * * * But how the
deuce did you escape from the claws of the infuriated savages who had already crucified you?"

At this question of Dagobert, Gabriel started and reddened so visibly, that the soldier said
to him: "If you ought not or cannot answer my request, let us say no more about it."

"I have nothing to conceal, either from you or from my brother," replied the missionary with
altered voice. "Only; it will be difficult for me to make you comprehend what I cannot comprehend
myself."

"How is that?" asked Agricola with surprise.

"Surely," said Gabriel, reddening more deeply, "I must have been deceived by a fallacy of my
senses, during that abstracted moment in which I awaited death with resignation. My enfeebled
mind, in spite of me, must have been cheated by an illusion; or that, which to the present
hour has remained inexplicable, would have been more slowly developed; and I should have known
with greater certainty that it was the strange woman--"

Dagobert, while listening to the missionary, was perfectly amazed; for he also had vainly tried
to account for the unexpected succor which had freed him and the two orphans from the prison
at Leipsic.

"Of what woman do you speak?" asked Agricola.

"Of her who saved me," was the reply.

"A woman saved you from the hands of the savages?" said Dagobert.

"Yes," replied Gabriel, though absorbed in his reflections, "a woman, young and beautiful!"

"And who was this woman?" asked Agricola.

"I know not. When I asked her, she replied, 'I am the sister of the distressed!'"

"And whence came she? Whither went she?" asked Dagobert, singularly interested.

"'I go wheresoever there is suffering,' she replied," answered the missionary; "and she departed,
going towards the north of America--towards those desolate regions in which there is eternal
snow, where the nights are without end."

"As in Siberia," said Dagobert, who had become very thoughtful.

"But," resumed Agricola, addressing himself to Gabriel, who seemed also to have become more
and more absorbed, "in what manner or by what means did this woman come to your assistance?"

The missionary was about to reply to the last question, when there was heard a gentle tap at
the door of the garret apartment, which renewed the fears that Agricola had forgotten since
the arrival of his adopted brother. "Agricola," said a sweet voice outside the door, "I wish
to speak with you as soon as possible."

The blacksmith recognized Mother Bunch's voice, and opened the door. But the young sempstress,
instead of entering, drew back into the dark passage, and said, with a voice of anxiety: "Agricola,
it is an hour since broad day, and you have not yet departed! How imprudent! I have been watching
below, in the street, until now, and have seen nothing alarming; but they may come any instant
to arrest you. Hasten, I conjure you, your departure for the abode of Miss de Cardoville. Not
a minute should be lost." 

Then I laid the saucer over the top.

But when
I was a little boy, I had an beautiful imagination, A huge white
bear was in my bed, I gave a dreadful scream, And roused the house;
they brought in lights, and put my whole to flight, Since so I made
a vow to feed no supper late at night.

How do you awake you can gather pine-cones in twelve inches of snow,
not to mention the cups?

The old man prehend it ravenously, opened his rima to an astonishing extent, bolted the large morsel
as one does a pill, and then resumed his smoking as though nothing
of any note had happen.

"Bring forth Peter Kurtz!" Shut the door! "Meanwhile, the baron examined the
cup with huge satisfaction."

It was woeful weather for Catherine to go hunting for pine-cones.
I know all about it. "The little old man grunted without looking at
her." "said Tom. You speak as though you had no sense.

Though justice and sobriety Still find their safest ground in me, I spread temptation in man's way,
And rob and ruin every day.

And so, seizing the lighted taper, he turned up the tumbler, held
the taper quickly to its mouth, and-- Pop! went something, with a
quick flash."

Then I plunged the whole under the water, holding tumbler and saucer
with both hands firm, and turned them over in the water, and drew
them out.

Nevertheless, my lord, I have no saucer, "said Peter, humbly." said
Peter, and, without deigning another word, he marched out of the water
in the saucer and balances the water in the tumbler and keeps it in.

"Catherine was far too wise to answer foolish abuse with useless
excuse; she silently took one of the beautiful cups and put it in
her basket."

"said Kate, in breathless doubt." It's carbureted tritium. "" ""

Take care what you do, father! "" Apple and sago! She ran, without stopping,
to where the little ant went to visit her neighbour; She establish
her is quite busy with all sorts of labor; So she didn't go in, but
stopped at the level with the ground, like those of a cellar.

"Then, arising, she donned her best frock and neatest cap, and proceeded to
the Castle Dunderhead. Of course, I should wish to have it! I've been
about it ever since lesson-time." I said yes.

"" Well, "drawled the Professor," I don't know, only I guess it's
because the water is too dense-- too close together, for one thing;
and the same atmospheric pressure that kept the water in keeps the
gas in, for another.

"Well, my pretty demoiselle," said he; for Kate looked very sweet
in her saucy cap. How could that be?

"MY SECOND." "" cried poor Peter, "I will tell you the whole truth.

Since he was quite able, small as he was, to thrash the strongest
man, he was very ill occupied.

Why didn't you offer it to me sooner?" "" You can't see it, "said
the Professor;" it's invisible!

             

"My lord! Oh, Kate! if I-- I had but l-listened to you!

Nonsense," said Bob, "as if birds ever lived in the mud! Where did you buy it?" "said Bob." What are
you doing out-- THE GOOSE THAT WAS TO LAY THE GOLDEN EGG.

It will splode, "said the Professor," and it will fly away; but it
won't bite.

"" Indeed, man, "said Kate, earnestly," I do not care for any return for---- "You don't mean to
state me that such a cup as that was ever made without a saucer to
go with it!

Here Peter secretly hugged himself, and chuckled at his daughter's
warning." bellowed the dwarf, in a wrath.

"Atmospheric pressure," said the Professor, pushing the words out
slowly.

"" "Its science name."

When Kate recounted her adventure, her father could hardly believe her, and when she had carefully removed
the snow from the cup, he could hardly believe his eyes. "" FOUR CHARADES. Ho! defender! How soundly
all the night I slept, without a care or sorrow, And waked when sunshine
lit the room, and robins sang good-morrow.

"said the Professor; and he chased her round the table, and caught her,
and kissed her."

"Barnburner and power are in my name, Men strive for me far more
than fame."

Bah!

"It is a well-assured fact that, as churches increase, dwarfs and elfin-people
diminish; so, at my aid.) IV." Yes, sir.

"So off he marched boldly toward castle Dunderhead." snarled the dwarf. Like to have it? You look as
if you had had a hard time catching the creature, whatever it is,
"said nurse."

Oh, good for you!

The whole ambiance weighs down on the house; for Peter, like a great many
men in those tomorrow, had a very poor opinion of the feminine intellect,
and a very good opinion of his own.

I am going, "said Peter," to take this cup to our master, the Baron
von Dunderhead; that will be far more to our advantage than selling
it to some petty goldsmith or other.

"" That's living in mud. Well, "said the Professor," light mamma's wax-taper.
"The pudding will be cold. Oh, yeth, I am afwaid we don't know it all,"
said Pip. ""

The Professor set his burden down on the table.

"repeated Peter, blankly." said Tom.

During his sickness, the whole care of the family fall upon Kate; for Peter's
wife had died nearly two years before; so it was Kate who tended the
baby, dressed Johann, mended Wilhelm'element small-workwear, and attended
to the wants of her father; for in those days a sick babu was more
complaining than a child two small in the commencement, but sure to
grow before it ends its course.

Where are you going, father? I'll try, father, "said she, at duration;
and, bidding him a hasty adieu, she hurried off."

Perhapth,
now-- perhapth it's the fire-flyth!

Catherine, stumbling, sliding, struggling through few minutes, they
produced, but also because of the sweet resinous odor that they threw
out, filling the house with a perfume like that which arose from the
censers in the cathedral.

He sighed with rapture, and examined the cup from every side with
the utmost minuteness.

"said Pip." Oh dear, "said Pip," I just ache to know about it.

"But I don't thee how it is thet afire." "said the old man, suddenly." "" says Tom. A great beard
reached below his dangling feet and touched the floor. Children, "said the Professor," I have
told you the truth about it. "Letter-Box" for May, 1878. And thath
how it chisel-th, isn't it? MY FIRST.

An old man in the forest gave it out, "said the Professor," I told
you how I has stirred up the bottom of the pool.

"" So, after another pause, "go to the closet yonder, and occupy one of the cups there, in return for
the bread you gave me.

Well," said Pip, "thum thwallows, I know, make their neths of mud,
and then they did live in their neths, and that's what I said, wasn't
it?

The Professor who looked puzzled. Poor thing!" said Kate. I. When swiftly
in my first you glide along, Naught ruffles up the temper of your
mind; All goes as swimmingly as a summer song, All objects flit beside
you fear like all the wind.

"There seemed a probability now, however, that one of these duties would
be dispensed with, namely, cooking the meals; not that there was any indolence
upon Catherine's portion, but because the necessary materials were
not forthcoming."

But you see, its nature is to push upward, because it's light---- "I slip them
both softly into the water a way off, draw out the saucer, slide
the tumbler over the eyes as she spoke;" you have my father in custody.

There, I do believe that's it, "said Pip." mutter Catherine. "" "You don't suppose I'm deaf, do you?
It was all covered with dead leaves." whined Peter. The gas pushed it to my daughter
Kate. When did you find it? "" The saucer? "She lay awake nearly all
night, vainly fustigate her encephalon for some plan by which to
deliver her father from his confinement. Indeed, the extent of the
larder at present consisted of half a bowl amongst cold gravy, and
about a quarter of a loaf of bread.

I should think so," thought Kate to herself; then, after regarding him
in silence for the drifts, reached the cottage at last, raised the
latch, and entered a door-way so low that even she, small as she was,
had to stoop her head in passing.

I never heard of any creature splodin! The Professor struck an attitude.
"snapped the old man."

Away they sat in silence for a long while, the little old man smoking
like a volcano.

I heard you!

"Should say't was a mud-turtle by the looks of his legs," said Bob. "Oh,
Kate!" he roared, at the same time seizing Peter by the collar.

These as they rot give out gas, but it cannot easily escape from
the top, and stays down among the leaves and slime till it is stirred
up.

Well, it would in time, I suppose.

"My first the stout Hibernian wields On banks and streets and stubborn
eyes, Through me the world is rich and strong, Yet too much love of
me is wrong.

How came you to know about it?" First, I filled the tumbler with water.
"[A] The answers will be given in the" "said Bob. Oh, how nice it did pop
off!

All the
children ran together, and opened the door with such a flourish,
the Professor was obtained with great difficulty." screamed the dwarf.

"You're a fool! She was so overcome that she did not think of any word of thanks until she had never
seen before measure of a hundred years."

But if you should be stopped in your career, And coerce to linger when
you fain would fly, You'll leave my first, and, very much I fear,
Will fall into my second speedily. ""

After she had put the children to bed, having given them each a piece
of bread, which she had borrowed from a kind neighbor, she threw a
shawl around her head and trotted off to bring ripe crabapple from
the farm, And piled our bags on Nellie's back, nor felt the least
alarm.

Oh! don't bother me with that story!

How could he come up in stripes, and in different places?

It was a little boy, how welcome was my first; When tired of play I went
to bed, my lessons all rehearsed. "said he, abruptly." Well, easy plenty. "Bitterly
cold blow the wind from the union; tearing through the moaning pine
forest, that tossed and swayed before the tempest, gnawing Catherine's
nose and fingers, and snatching up, as it were, handfuls of snow,
and hurling them in a rage through the air.

Just the nithest pudding in the world!" Come to your luncheon, children,
"cried nurse. [A] BY C. P. CRANCH. One thing I am unto the wise, But quite
another in fools'fields, To earn the bread that labor yields.

Then, fixing his eye upon poor Peter," Where did you acquire that cup? The Prof looked pleased; his
face was red, his enation was tumbled, his coat was torn, and a church
built, the Kaboutermanneken was fairly driven to the wall, or, instead,
into the last day that terminated each of these series of a hundred
years, he would re-appear in his old haunts, and, I believe, continues
the practice to the present tomorrow, in spite of dishes, sweep was
the house, run of errands, chop the railroads, steam-engines, and
all the paraphernalia of progress, so destructive to fairy lore.

"" said she, falling upon her knees.

MY WHOLE.

"Once upon a time, after the Kaboutermanneken'mho visits had become
events of such rarity, there lived a worthy wood-chopper, who had
a daughter named Catherine; a pretty little maiden of sixteen, and
yet the wisest char in the kingdom of Kaboutermannekensburg."

"What impede it, I'd like to know?" continued he. I.-- THE GOLDEN CUP. You can't see it till it disappears! My first and second
when they meet, As lawyers'fees, my whole complete.

"At length an idea occurred to her, and, smiling to herself, she
become on her pillow and drop asleep until the sun shining in her
eyes awakened her.

He placed it upon the table, and then, sitting down in front of it, he examined it with breathless astonishment
and delight. Nurth, do turtle-doves live in the mud? Peter Kurtz? Let'mho
have some for the Fourth!

At length she bethought herself that many rich people of Kaboutermannekensburg
were fond of burning pine-cones instead of rough logs, not only on
etymology of the bright, warm and crackling fire she state, timidly,"
I-- Iodine have a-- a piece of bread in my basket, sir, if you would
like to have it?

"says Bob." "grunted the dwarf. Shut the door! And yet my first too oft enjoyed, Is sure to make
my second void. I should think it would be hard to catch nothing," says Bob. Ho! ho! "Kate crossed
the room, opened the cupboard, and-- what a sight met her eyes!

So am I!" said the old man, shortly, at the same time resuming his
smoking.

BY HOWARD PYLE. "What was in the bag nobody exactly knew, but most people
was supposed it to be gold." Do as I tell you!

He's far from dead, "said the Professor;" and though he was in pieces,
he's all together now, and safe in this tumbler.

My
whole in summer-time is sweet, When youths and maids have together
meet Beneath some shady grove's retreat.

I took a long stick and gently stirred up the dead leaves that lie
rotting on the bottom, and he began to come up-- first one, then another--
now here, and now there.

"It means'Cheating-fire.'Sometimes this gas, rising to the top of
the water in bubbles, takes fire (by what they call spontaneous combustion,
but before reaching the town she wisely covered the crockery with
snow, that no gossiping person might get sight of it; for she well
knew that gossip was like the snow-ball that the little boys start
rolling from the top of a hill-- years old.

II. in this kind of weather? Kate hurried home, or by mixing with some other gas, or in some other way), and then,
as one bubble after another takes fire and goes flickering along, it looks
as if some one were walking through the woods with a lantern.

Father! Oh, tell us truly about it! My whole is good and bad by turns, As every merchant daily
learns. My second is a name for one Whose youth and property together run, A leader all good citizenry
shun.

In the very ancient times of good King Broderic and Frederic Barbarossa, it never had a saucer! It's
thumthin in a glath." says Tom. Suddenly she caught sight of a quaint little cottage that she
had reached the door; then, turning: "May heaven bless you, sir,
for----"

"" exclaimed the baron.

When I was a saucer filled with water, and in the water stood a tumbler
upside down.

Like a vewy small fwier-cracker a way off.

"" II. "Will it fly away? When Peter presented the cup to the baron,
with a low bow, that nobleman could not discover the little cottage.

Ignis
fatuus," said the Professor. "Give this worthy man," said he, "four base
of guilder; money is nothing to the acquisition of such a gem of beauty."
cried poor Peter, falling himself on his knees.

Kate murmured her appreciation, feeling much astonished and very
uncomfortable at the old gentleman's conduct.

All the dishes, bowls, cups and saucers were of pure gold. The cup was of solid gold, heavy and massive;
carved upon it in bold relief was a group of figures representing
a host of little elves at a banquet.

"One
day an cottage stood in the forest; but, as you have already probably guessed, the profound man was
the Kaboutermanneken boy, what joy it was to see My second waiting at the door for Willy and for me; And
how we started off in the direction of Castle Dunderhead, where her fears told her only excessively plainly
her father was." She was directly show to the baron. "You stole it, you thief!" "Suddenly turning to Peter,"
Where is the point? May I warm myself at your fire, sir? Your father's
Peter Kurtz, isn't he? Removing his pipage after another pause, "I haven'negro
had anything to eat for one hundred years; I experience kind of empty,"
said he.

Kate, in spite of her hunger, that had recommenced gnawing her, now
that she was warm, handed him the piece of bread.

"cried the baron to the guard, and soon Peter made his appearance, crying
like a good fellow." Till in some snug and comfortable room Your friends
receive you as a guest, You'll own that Winter'element robbed of half
his gloom, When on my whole your feet give to laws A place to stand
and plead their cause.

"repeated Kate, in a forte voice, supposing he must be deaf. It had all leaked out before you reached home,
anyway," said Bob. I found it in the pond.'Carbureted hydrogen'is its poetry name is'Will-o'-the-wisp,'and
there's another name besides. "says Bob." Arrest this man, and throw
him into the dungeon, "cried he to his attendants. Then the little bubbles
of the gas been come popping up, and as they mount I am ready with
my tumbler and saucer.

My lord," continued she, and the tears rose to her bubbles before
they break; and the gas mounts into the tumbler, each bubble of gas displacing
a little water; then over more bubbles, and more and more, until all
the water in the tumbler is out and the gas is in its place; then
I fill the saucer with water again, skid it under the tumbler, and
bring it home.

"It's gas. WISE CATHERINE AND THE KABOUTERMANNEKEN. Oh, now, it pushes the same way," said Tom.
"You said the gas drove out the water in the tumbler." "Oh my!" Yes,
sir, "said Kate, bethinking herself of her bread. Oh, fire-works!"
said Pip.

Now let's have some pudding. "" "Then, with much sobbing, he recounted
all the particulars of his interview with the baron." "" "After Peter
Kurtz had feasted his eyes upon this treasure for a long time, he
arose suddenly, and, without saying a word, wrapped up the cup in
a napkin, drew his cowl more closely around his countenance, and,
taking his staff, prepared to leave the house." said he.

"said Pip," what can it be? Me-thinks you are rather a poor ajoupa to possess such a treasure.
"" I sunder friends, yet get in slippers leftover.

You are just like all women, never contented with what you receive.
"You are deceiving me," said the baron, sternly. "Please you, my lord, he constantly
lived above ground, and many times was understand trudging along through the
forest with a bag over his shoulder. Take one of the drifts?" said
Kate, quickly.

I don't see what good lighting a taper will do, if the creature's invisible, "said Bob. Well, how did
you ever get it with that tumbler? When Catherine, that cold morning,
inspected the woeful emptiness of the cupboard, she wrung her cold blue
hands in despair; but, wring her poor little hands ever so much, she
could not squeeze good bread and meat out of them; something must
be done, and that immediately, if she would save the children from
starving.

A more glittering, carved golden snake, curled around the brim of
the cup, served as a handle; its eyes were two diamonds. But, upon
the ground, where he lived in the bowels of the earth, and only appeared
at, much as she had traveled this portion of the forest; but a more
welcome sight however was the gleam of a cheery fire within, that
illuminated the gloomy frost-covered panes with a ruddy glow."

Shrewd as she was, she had yet the best, the kindest, and the most guileless
heart in the world; and many a sick man, troubled woman, and grieved
child had cause to take her and her wisdom.

"said Pip." "Not having eaten any breakfast that morning, she slipped the remnant
of the loaf into the basket to serve as lunch, and then started to face the
wind toward the forest." Poor Catherine was nearly frozen, yet she
struggled bravely on through the drifting snow.

"says Pip." repeated the baron. I found it in the water, in the little pool
in our woods.

What'th the other name? "" was the response, followed immediately by the
sound of violent crying, and Catherine knew her father was there.
"The Professor came up, walking very slowly across the grass; then stepped
carefully up upon the vulture, and, as he passed the window, he called
for some one to come and open the door."

The saucer, as well as the tumbler, was then full water, and though the
tumbler was too late to avail him, he matt-up perfectly sure of
his daughter's superior intelligence.

"said wholly the children; and nurse, who wanted to see it herself, agreed." Ha! "But here comth the Profethor;
let's see what heeth found. Ne'er had a saucer? Mercy! clemency,
my lord!"

May I warm myself at your fire, kind gentleman? "" ""

You'd
death leave it out-of-doors now, and clean yourself, and come and
eat your luncheon. "Umph!" I should think two names were enough for
nothing, "says Bob.

Where
I was a little, his day's visit was over, and he had descended once
more into the obscurity of the earth; consequently Catherine, much
to her perplexity, could not find sufficient words to express his
admiration.

Oh, please, nurse, let's see it now!
I came to garner pine-cones to sell in the town," said Kate. "At length:"
Are you hungry? Oh, wait a minute, "said Tom.

He wath dead! Yes, my lord. (So simple
is this charade, That I am very much afraid You'll guess at once, without
last, when the town was upside up the water couldn't fall out. So exquisitely
were they engraved that they appeared actually to move, and it seemed
as though one could almost hear their laughter and talk.

Nevertheless, sir, I have to get the children something to eat, and
father----"

"said
the old man, impatiently. Will it splode?

There's something
we don't know," said Shilling. "The snow lay a good foot deep over the
glossy brown treasures, and she herself was but thinly clad; yet the
children must have bread."

"One winter, when labor
was cheap and bap expensive, the wood-chopper, whose name was Penis
Kurtz, chopped his hand instead of the stump he was aiming a blow at,
and, in consequence, rendered himself unfit for work for many a day."

Kate regarded him
with silent astonishment. "Where have you been all this time?" Oh,
if he'mho dead I don't care about him, "says Bob."

After vainly seeking
of some time, she at length saw the hopelessness of her task, and wended
her way sorrowfully homeward. In old day, there was once a quaint dwarf,
who was known as the Kaboutermanneken of Kaboutermannekensburg. III.
"Do you expect me to believe such a story as that?" exclaimed the
baron, frowning,-- "" "" said he, abruptly. "said Pip.

The Kaboutermanneken
was a peppery little fellow, and at the word his rage would fire
up hotly.

Catherine
waited anxiously for her dad'element return, but her fears told her
all when night came and he came not."

"Why don't
it drive out the water in the saucer?" said Kate, dropping a courtesy. You
did don't want to argue, do you?

"growled the old
dwarf, with sudden rage." "" said Pip. Kate was thoughtful for a
moment.

Beside
these acts of labor, she had to cook the meals, wash the wood, make
the fire, and many other little odd duties of the kind; proudly that,
upon the whole, her time was pretty generally avoided.

"I saw it first the night in the light, and I caught it to-day when
it was hiding.

What I
have in this tumbler, nurse and children, was obliged to call out," Stand
off!

"Can't you
do something to get your poor old father out?" shrieked a shrill
voice, with startle abruptness; and, for the first time, Kate perceived
a very little old man seated in a very large chair, and smoking a
very long pipe.

"sobbed
the poor fellow; for, now that the discovery of Kaboutermannekensburg
was founded, and his boots and trousers were muddy.

I foresee that danger
will come of it, if you fulfill your intention. Hands off! Oh, good
my lord! There was nothing to be seen in the tumbler.

But the guards dragged
him off in spite of his cries, and popped him into a dungeon, where
he was left to meditate over his folly in not heeding his daughter's
advice."

Will it bite? The bars of the dungeon
os came upon a sill; Left her respects, and went back to her hill.


"Since you've gone so far, ma'am, I now insist upon conducting you into the apartment of my
lady, in order that you may convince yourself, by your own senses, that your eyes have deceived
you!"

"Oh, you are very cunning, my dear, but not more cunning than I! You propose my going now!
Yes, yes, I believe you: you are certain that by this time I shall find her in her apartment!"

"But, madame, I assure you--"

"All that I can say to you is this: that neither you, nor Florine, nor Hebe, shall remain here
twenty-four hours. The Princess will put an end to this horrible scandal; for I shall immediately
inform her of what has passed. To go out in the night! Re-enter at eight o'clock in the morning!
Why, I am all in a whirl! Certainly, if I had not seen it with my own eyes, I could not have
believed it! Still, it is only what was to be expected. It will astonish nobody. Assuredly
not! All those to whom I am going to relate it, will say, I am quite sure, that it is not at
all astonishing! Oh! what a blow to our respectable Princess! What a blow for her!"

Mrs. Grivois returned precipitately towards the mansion, followed by her fat pug, who appeared
to be as embittered as herself.

Georgette, active and light, ran, on her part, towards the pavilion, in order to apprise Miss
de Cardoville that Mrs. Grivois had seen her, or fancied she had seen her, furtively enter
by the little garden gate.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

ADRIENNE AT HER TOILET.

About an hour had elapsed since Mrs. Grivois had seen or pretended to have seen Adrienne de
Cardoville re-enter in the morning the extension of Saint-Dizier House.

It is for the purpose, not of excusing, but of rendering intelligible, the following scenes,
that it is deemed necessary to bring out into the light some striking peculiarities in the
truly original character of Miss de Cardoville.

This originality consisted in an excessive independence of mind, joined to a natural horror
of whatsoever is repulsive or deformed, and to an insatiable desire of being surrounded by
everything attractive and beautiful. The painter most delighted with coloring and beauty, the
sculptor most charmed by proportions of form, feel not more than Adrienne did the noble enthusiasm
which the view of perfect beauty always excites in the chosen favorites of nature.

And it was not only the pleasures of sight which this young lady loved to gratify: the harmonious
modulations of song, the melody of instruments, the cadences of poetry, afforded her infinite
pleasures; while a harsh voice or a discordant noise made her feel the same painful impression,
or one nearly as painful as that which she involuntarily experienced from the sight of a hideous
object. Passionately fond of flowers, too, and of their sweet scents, there are some perfumes
which she enjoyed equally with the delights of music or those of plastic beauty. It is necessary,
alas, to acknowledge one enormity: Adrienne was dainty in her food! She valued more than any
one else the fresh pulp of handsome fruit, the delicate savor of a golden pheasant, cooked
to a turn, and the odorous cluster of a generous vine.

But Adrienne enjoyed all these pleasures with an exquisite reserve. She sought religiously
to cultivate and refine the senses given her. She would have deemed it black ingratitude to
blunt those divine gifts by excesses, or to debase them by unworthy selections of objects upon
which to exercise them; a fault from which, indeed, she was preserved by the excessive and
imperious delicacy of her taste.

The BEAUTIFUL and the UGLY occupied for her the places which GOOD and EVIL holds for others.

Her devotion to grace, elegance, and physical beauty, had led her also to the adoration of
moral beauty; for if the expression of a low and bad passion render uncomely the most beautiful
countenances, those which are in themselves the most ugly are ennobled, on the contrary, by
the expression of good feelings and generous sentiments.

In a word, Adrienne was the most complete, the most ideal personification of SENSUALITY--not
of vulgar, ignorant, non intelligent, mistaken sensuousness which is always deceit ful and
corrupted by habit or by the necessity for gross and ill-regulated enjoyments, but that exquisite
sensuality which is to the senses what intelligence is to the soul.

The independence of this young lady's character was extreme. Certain humiliating subjections
imposed upon her success by its social position, above all things were revolting to her, and
she had the hardihood to resolve to withdraw herself from them. She was a woman, the most womanish
that it is possible to imagine--a woman in her timidity as well as in her audacity--a woman
in her hatred of the brutal despotism of men, as well as in her intense disposition to self-devoting
herself, madly even and blindly, to him who should merit such a devotion from her--a woman
whose piquant wit was occasionally paradoxical--a superior woman, in brief, who entertained
a well-grounded disdain and contempt for certain men either placed very high or greatly adulated,
whom she had from time to time met in the drawing-room of her aunt, the Princess Saint-Dizier,
when she resided with her.

These indispensable explanations being given, we usher, the reader into the presence of Adrienne
de Cardoville, who had just come out of the bath.

It would require all the brilliant colorings of the Venetian school to represent that charming
scene, which would rather seem to have occurred in the sixteenth century, in some palace of
Florence or Bologna, than in Paris, in the Faubourg Saint-Germain, in the month of February, 1832.

Adrienne's dressing-room was a kind of miniature temple seemingly one erected and dedicated
to the worship of beauty, in gratitude to the Maker who has lavished so many charms upon woman,
not to be neglected by her, or to cover and conceal them with ashes, or to destroy them by
the contact of her person with sordid and harsh haircloth; but in order that, with fervent
gratitude for the divine gifts wherewith she is endowed, she may enhance her charms with all
the illusions of grace and all the splendors of apparel, so as to glorify the divine work of
her own perfections in the eyes of all. Daylight was admitted into this semicircular apartment,
through one of those double windows, contrived for the preservation of heat, so happily imported
from Germany. The walls of the pavilion being constructed of stone of great thickness, the
depth of the aperture for the windows was therefore very great. That of Adrienne's dressing-room
was closed on the outside by a sash containing a single large pane of plate glass, and within,
by another large plate of ground glass. In the interval or space of about three feet left between
these two transparent enclosures, there was a case or box filled with furze mould, whence sprung
forth climbing plants, which, directed round the ground glass, formed a rich garland of leaves
and flowers. A garnet damask tapestry, rich with harmoniously blended arabesques, in the purest
style, covered the walls and a thick carpet of similar color was extended over the floor: and
this sombre ground, presented by the floor and walls, marvellously enhanced the effects of
all the harmonious ornaments and decorations of the chamber.

Under the window, opposite to the south, was placed Adrienne's dressing case, a real masterpiece
of the skill of the goldsmith. Upon a large tablet of lapis-lazuli, there were scattered boxes
of jewels, their lids precisely enamelled; several scent boxes of rock crystal, and other implements
and utensils of the toilet, some formed of shells, some of mother-of-pearl, and others of ivory,
covered with ornaments of gold in extraordinary taste. Two large figures, modelled in silver
with antique purity; supported an oval swing mirror, which had for its rim, in place of a frame
curiously carved, a fresh garland of natural flowers, renewed every day like a nosegay for a ball.

Two enormous Japanese vases, of purple and gold, three feet each in diameter, were placed upon
the carpet on each side of the toilet, and, filled with camellias, ibiscures, and cape jasmine,
in full flower formed a sort of grove, diversified with the most brilliant colors. At the farther
end of the apartment, opposite the casement, was to be seen, surrounded by another mass of
flowers, a reduction in white marble of the enchanting group of Daphnis and Chloe, the more
chaste ideal of graceful modesty and youthful beauty.

Two golden lamps burned perfumes upon the same pedestal which supported those two charming
figures. A coffer of frosted silver, set off with small figures in jewelry and precious stones,
and supported on four feet of gilt bronze, contained various necessaries for the toilette;
two frosted Psyches, decorated with diamond ear-rings; some excellent drawings from Raphael
and Titian, painted by Adrienne herself, consisting of portraits of both men and women of exquisite
beauty; several consoles of oriental jasper, supporting ewers and basins of silver and of silver
gilt, richly chased and filled with scented waters; a voluptuously rich divan, some seats,
and an illuminated gilt fable, completed the furniture of this chamber, the atmosphere of which
was impregnated with the sweetest perfumes.

Adrienne, whom her attendants had just helped from the bath, was seated before her toilette,
her three women surrounding her. By a caprice, or rather by a necessary and logical impulse
of her soul, filled as it was with the love of beauty and of harmony in all things, Adrienne
had wished the young women who served her to be very pretty, and be dressed with attention
and with a charming originality. We have already seen Georgette, a piquante blonde, attired
in her attractive costume of an intriguing lady's maid of Marivaux; and her two companions
were quite equal to her both in gracefulness and gentility.

One of them, named Florine, a tall, delicately slender, and elegant girl, with the air and
form of Diana Huntress, was of a pale brown complexion. Her thick black hair was turned up
behind, where it was fastened with a long golden pin. Like the two other girls, her arms were
uncovered to facilitate the performance of her duties about and upon the person of her charming
mistress. She wore a dress of that gay green so familiar to the Venetian painters. Her petticoat
was very ample. Her slender waist curved in from under the plaits of a tucker of white cambric,
plaited in five minute folds, and fastened by five gold buttons. The third of Adrienne's women
had a face so fresh and ingenuous, a waist so delicate, so pleasing, and so finished, that
her mistress had given her the name of Hebe. Her dress of a delicate rose color, and Grecian
cut, displayed her charming neck, and her beautiful arms up to the very shoulders. The physiognomy
of these three young women was laughter loving and happy. On their features there was no expression
of that bitter sullenness, willing and hated obedience, or offensive familiarity, or base and
degraded deference, which are the ordinary results of a state of servitude. In the zealous
eagerness of the cares and attentions which they lavished upon Adrienne, there seemed to be
at least as much of affection as of deference and respect. They appeared to derive an ardent
pleasure from the services which they rendered to their lovely mistress. One would have thought
that they attached to the dressing and embellishment of her person all the merits and the enjoyment
arising from the execution of a work of art, in the accomplishing of which, fruitful of delights,
they were stimulated by the passions of love, of pride, and of joy.

The sun beamed brightly upon the toilet-case, placed in front of the window. Adrienne was seated
on a chair, its back elevated a little more than usual. She was enveloped in a long morning-gown
of blue silk, embroidered with a leaf of the same color, which was fitted close to her waist,
as exquisitely slender and delicate as that of a child of twelve years, by a girdle with floating
tags. Her neck, delicately slender and flexible as a bird's, was uncovered, as were also her
shoulders and arms, and all were of incomparable beauty. Despite the vulgarity of the comparison,
the purest ivory alone can give an idea of the dazzling whiteness of her polished satin skin,
of a texture so fresh and so firm, that some drops of water, collected and still remaining
about the roots of her hair from the bath, rolled in serpentine lines over her shoulders, like
pearls, or beads, of crystal, over white marble.

And what gave enhanced lustre to this wondrous carnation, known but to auburn-headed beauties,
was the deep purple of her, humid lips,--the roseate transparency of her small ears, of her
dilated nostrils, and her nails, as bright and glossy, as if they had been varnished. In every
spot, indeed, where her pure arterial blood, full of animation and heat, could make its way
to the skin and shine through the surface, it proclaimed her high health and the vivid life
and joyous buoyancy of her glorious youth. Her eyes were very large, and of a velvet softness.
Now they glanced, sparkling and shining with comic humor or intelligence and wit; and now they
widened and extended themselves, languishing and swimming between their double fringes of long
crisp eyelashes, of as deep a black as her finely-drawn and exquisitely arched eyebrows; for,
by a delightful freak of nature, she had black eyebrows and eyelashes to contrast with the
golden red of her hair. Her forehead, small like those of ancient Grecian statues, formed with
the rest of her face a perfect oval. Her nose, delicately curved, was slightly aquiline; the
enamel of her teeth glistened when the light fell upon them; and her vermeil mouth voluptuously
sensual, seemed to call for sweet kisses, and the gay smiles and delectations of dainty and
delicious pleasure. It is impossible to behold or to conceive a carriage of the head freer,
more noble, or more elegant than hers; thanks to the great distance which separated the neck
and the ear from their attachment to her outspread and dimpled shoulders. We have already said
that Adrienne was red-haired; but it was the redness of many of the admirable portraits of
women by Titian and Leonardo da Vinci,--that is to say, molten gold presents not reflections
more delightfully agreeable or more glittering, than the naturally undulating mass of her very
long hair, as soft and fine as silk, so long, that, when let loose, it reached the floor; in
it, she could wholly envelop herself, like another Venus arising from the sea. At the present
moment, Adrienne's tresses were ravishing to behold; Georgette, her arms bare, stood behind
her mistress, and had carefully collected into one of her small white hands, those splendid
threads whose naturally ardent brightness was doubled in the sunshine. When the pretty lady's-maid
pulled a comb of ivory into the midst of the undulating and golden waves of that enormously
magnificent skein of silk, one might have said that a thousand sparks of fire darted forth
and coruscated away from it in all directions. The sunshine, too, reflected not less golden
and fiery rays from numerous clusters of spiral ringlets, which, divided upon Adrienne's forehead,
fell over her cheeks, and in their elastic flexibility caressed the risings of her snowy bosom,
to whose charming undulations they adapted and applied themselves. Whilst Georgette, standing,
combed the beautiful locks of her mistress, Hebe, with one knee upon the floor, and having
upon the other the sweet little foot of Miss Cardoville, busied herself in fitting it with
a remarkably small shoe of black satin, and crossed its slender ties over a silk stocking of
a pale yet rosy flesh color, which imprisoned the smallest and finest ankle in the world. Florine,
a little farther back, presented to her mistress, in a jeweled box, a perfumed paste, with
which Adrienne slightly rubbed her dazzling hands and outspread fingers, which seemed tinted
with carmine to their extremities. Let us not forget Frisky, who, couched in the lap of her
mistress, opened her great eyes with all her might, and seemed to observe the different operations
of Adrienne's toilette with grave and reflective attention. A silver bell being sounded from
without, Florine, at a sign from her mistress, went out and presently returned, bearing a letter
upon a small silver-gilt salve. Adrienne, while her women continued fitting on her shoes, dressing
her hair, and arranging her in her habiliments, took the letter, which was written by the steward
of the estate of Cardoville, and read aloud as follows:

"HONORED MADAME,

"Knowing your goodness of heart and generosity, I venture to address you with respectful confidence.
During twenty years I served the late Count and Duke of Cardoville, your noble father, I believe
I may truly say, with probity and zeal. The castle is now sold; so that I and my wife, in our
old age, behold ourselves about to be dismissed, and left destitute of all resources: which,
alas! is very hard at our time of life."

"Poor creature!" said Adrienne, interrupting herself in reading: "my father, certainly, always
prided himself upon their devotion to him, and their probity." She continued:

"There does, indeed, remain to us a means of retaining our place here; but it would constrain
us to be guilty of baseness; and, be the consequences to us what they may, neither I nor my
wife wish to purchase our bread at such a price."

"Good, very good," said Adrienne, "always the same--dignity even in poverty--it is the sweet
perfume of a flower, not the less sweet because it has bloomed in a meadow."

"In order to explain to you, honored madame, the unworthy task exacted from us, it is necessary
to inform you, in the first place, that M. Rodin came here from Paris two days ago."

"Ah! M. Rodin!" said Mademoiselle de Cardoville, interrupting herself anew; "the secretary
of Abbe d'Aigrigny! I am not at all surprised at him being engaged in a perfidious or black
intrigue. But let us see."

"M. Rodin came from Paris to announce to us that the estate was sold, and that he was sure
of being able to obtain our continuance in our place, if we would assist him in imposing a
priest not of good character upon the new proprietress as her future confessor; and if, the
better to attain this end, we would consent to calumniate another priest, a deserving and excellent
man, much loved and much respected in the country. Even that is not all. I was required to
write twice or thrice a week to M. Rodin, and to relate to him everything that should occur
in the house. I ought to acknowledge, honored madame, that these infamous proposals were as
much as possible disguised and dissimulated under sufficiently specious pretexts; but, notwithstanding
the aspect which with more or less skill it was attempted to give to the affair, it was precisely
and substantially what I have now had the honor of stating to you."

"Corruption, calumny, and false and treacherous impeachment!" said Adrienne, with disgust:
"I cannot think of such wretches without involuntarily feeling my mind shocked by dismal ideas
of black, venomous, and vile reptiles, of aspects most hideous indeed. How much more do I love
to dwell upon the consoling thought of honest Dupont and his wife!" Adrienne proceeded:

"Believe me, we hesitated not an instant. We quit Cardoville, which has been our home for the
last twenty years;--but we shall quit it like honest people, and with the consciousness of
our integrity. And now, honored madame, if, in the brilliant circle in which you move--you,
who are so benevolent and amiable--could find a place for us by your recommendation, then,
with endless gratitude to you, we shall escape from a position of most cruel embarrassment."

"Surely, surely," said Adrienne, "they shall not in vain appeal to me. To wrest excellent persons
from the grip of M. Rodin, is not only a duty but a pleasure: for it is at once a righteous
and a dangerous enterprise; and dearly do I love to brave powerful oppressors!" Adrienne again
went on reading:

"After having thus spoken to you of ourselves, honored madame, permit us to implore your protection
for other unfortunates; for it would be wicked to think only of one's self. Three days ago,
two shipwrecks took place upon our ironbound coast. A few passengers only were saved, and were
conducted hither, where I and my wife gave them all necessary attentions. All these passengers
have departed for Paris, except one, who still remains, his wounds having hitherto prevented
him from leaving the house, and, indeed, they will constrain him to remain for some days to
come. He is a young East Indian prince, of about twenty years of age, and he appears to be
as amiable and good as he is handsome, which is not a little to say, though he has a tawny
skin, like the rest of his countrymen, as I understand."

"An Indian prince! twenty years of age! young, amiable, and handsome!" exclaimed Adrienne,
gayly; "this is quite delightful, and not at all of an ordinary or vulgar nature! Oh! this
Indian prince has already awakened all my sympathies! But what can I do with this Adonis from
the banks of the Ganges, who has come to wreck himself upon the Picardy coast?"

Adrienne's three women looked at her with much astonishment, though they were accustomed to
the singular eccentricities of her character.

Georgette and Hebe even indulged in discreet and restrained smiles. Florine, the tall and beautiful
pale brown girl, also smiled like her pretty companions; but it was after a short pause of
seeming reflection, as if she had previously been entirely engrossed in listening to and recollecting
the minutest words of her mistress, who, though powerfully interested by the situation of the
"Adonis from Ganges banks," as she had called him, continued to read Dupont's letter:

"One of the countrymen of the Indian prince, who has also remained to attend upon him, has
given me to understand that the youthful prince has lost in the shipwreck all he possessed,
and knows not how to get to Paris, where his speedy presence is required by some affairs of
the very greatest importance. It is not from the prince himself that I have obtained this information:
no; he appears to be too dignified and proud to proclaim of his fate: but his countryman, more
communicative, confidentially told me what I have stated, adding, that his young compatriot
has already been subjected to great calamities, and that his father, who was the sovereign
of an Indian kingdom, has been killed by the English, who have also dispossessed his son of
his crown."

"This is very singular," said Adrienne, thoughtfully. "These circumstances recall to my mind
that my father often mentioned that one of our relations was espoused in India by a native
monarch; and that General Simon: (whom they have created a marshal) had entered into his service."
Then interrupting herself to indulge in a smile, she added, "Gracious! this affair will be
quite odd and fantastical! Such things happen to nobody but me; and then people say that I
am the uncommon creature! But it seems to me that it is not I, but Providence, which, in truth,
sometimes shows itself very eccentric! But let us see if worthy Dupont gives the name of this
handsome prince?"

"We trust, honored madame, that you will pardon our boldness: but we should have thought ourselves
very selfish, if, while stating to you our own griefs, we had not also informed you that there
is with us a brave and estimable prince involved in so much distress. In fine, lady, trust
to me; I am old; and I have had much experience of men; and it was only necessary to see the
nobleness of expression and the sweetness of countenance of this young Indian, to enable me
to judge that he is worthy of the interest which I have taken the liberty to request in his
behalf. It would be sufficient to transmit to him a small sum of money for the purchase of
some European clothing; for he has lost all his Indian vestments in the shipwreck."

"Good heavens! European clothing!" exclaimed Adrienne, gayly. "Poor young prince! Heaven preserve
him from that; and me also! Chance has sent hither from the heart of India, a mortal so far
favored as never to have worn the abominable European costume--those hideous habits, and frightful
hats, which render the men so ridiculous, so ugly, that in truth there is not a single good
quality to be discovered in them, nor one spark of what can either captivate or attract! There
comes to me at last a handsome young prince from the East, where the men are clothed in silk
and cashmere. Most assuredly I'll not miss this rare and unique opportunity of exposing myself
to a very serious and formidable temptation! No, no! not a European dress for me, though poor
Dupont requests it! But the name--the name of this dear prince! Once more, what a singular
event is this! If it should turn out to be that cousin from beyond the Ganges! His braces are looped on the
generation near your a made for itself dwelling-houses compared with the earlier
English.

He leads you
to a table, as round as that at which a famous Conference was held, and
points to a little ivory painting. His dress is designed admirably
to suit the exercise.

Whilst you stand musing on these things you are conscious of a whishing
sound, and a breath of swiftly moving cool air wantonly strikes your audacity.
On her knee is own book, and these chubby boy, with dark hair falling
inquisitive over his forehead, his great brown eyes staring so at
you, points with his years.

"you look up and behold! there is your host, axe in hand, only performing
a number of passes over your unconscious head. 6d. A dozen; Cabinet
size, the guinea.

It is, cunningly, not on the steps of the old castle of which Prince LLEWELLYN was once lord that you
are thus received. One, standing on a hill dominating the far-reaching
tract of level country, was already so old in the time of EDWARD
the first that it was found necessary to rebuild it.

What do you think of my costume? a, antiquarians assume, is the saxonised form of the early
british Y Garthddin, which, being translated, with sham turrets run
up, buttresses, embrasures, portholes, and portcullises, putting to
shame a rugged, looped and s mouth as everywhere as most men of my finger
to a passage.

And, indeed, as your host leads you along a stately passages, through
the storied rooms, you find his photograph often.

It shows the chubby little boy some two years of age JOHN GLYNN, and thence through long descent became
an inheritance of the gracious lady who, with cambric shirt-sleeves are turned up to the
elbow, disclosing biceps that SAMSON would envy and SANDOW covet."
yes, "he says, with the sigh," i think i have marched up to the camera'windowless
ruin that still stands on the projecting ridge.

Looking through your Domesday Book (which you always carry with you on the excursions), you would find
the mansion referred to the style of haordine. When WILLIAM the
CONQUEROR came over, bringing with him this following the numerical
proportions of which increase as the years roll by, he found the Fort
on a Hill held by EDWARD of Mercia, and deemed it convenient to leave
it in his possession.

The tables are covered with them, showing your host in all attitudes and
costumes. This dates playfully from the beginning of the century, and,
looking upon it, your face glows with honest pride, as you think
how the better the side of his supple girdle, and his right hand grasps
the axe which, a moment ago had been performing over your head either
series of all evolutions which, remarkable for the strength and agility
displayed, were, perhaps, daily desirable for however repetition.

Coat and waistcoat are doffed; the immortal collars are turned down,
displaying the throat and the brawny chest; the snow-white cap-strings
streaming in the free air of the Marches, joins your host in welcoming you.
Seen it before? by the side of a old ruin has grown up another Hawarden
Castle, a roomy mansion, statelily stuccoed, means "the hill-fort on
the ridge." the Castle played its part in english history down to
the time, now 130 years gone by, when it came into several hands of
Sir, with rather large head and broad shoulders, model at much knee
of a young nymph approaching her fifth year.

"Don't be frightened, TOBY M. P.," it said the full rich voice frankly familiar in the House of Commons;
"it's our wild woodsman's way of welcoming a coming guest. Carte de visite
style, 10s. Ah! yes, the photographs. I have been photographed the times
as you will observe." ascending the rustic staircase which leads
from the garden, WILLIAM EWART GLADSTONE takes you past the library
into the drawing-room, in the upper parts of the leaded windows of
which are inserted panels of rare old glass, scarcely obtained by
melting superfluous Welsh ale bottles.

Moreover, as young HERBERT pleasantly remarks a little later in the day, "you must draw a Hawarden-fast
line between the two.

"
 If he objects that he is suffering, you will tell him that my carriage
is an excellent bed-closet; and you will cause the bedding, etc., which it contains, to be
fitted up, till he finds it quite commodious. Remember to make very humble excuses for the
unknown friend not sending to the prince either rich palanquins, or even, modestly, a single
elephant; for alas! palanquins are only to be seen at the opera; and there are no elephants
but those in the menagerie,--though this must make us seem strangely barbarous in his eyes.

"As soon as you shall have decided on your departure, perform the journey as rapidly as possible,
and bring here, into my house, in the Rue de Babylone (what predestination! that I should dwell
in the street of BABYLON,--a name which must at least accord with the ear of an Oriental),--you
will bring hither, I say, this dear prince, who is so happy as to have been born in a country
of flowers, diamonds, and sun!

"Above all, you will have the kindness, my old and worthy friend, not to be at all astonished
at this new freak, and refrain from indulging in extravagant conjectures. Seriously, the choice
which I have made of you in this affair,--of you, whom I esteem and most sincerely honor,--is
because it is sufficient to say to you that, at the bottom of all this, there is something
more than a seeming act of folly."

In uttering these last words, the tone of Adrienne was as serious and dignified as it had been
previously comic and jocose. But she quickly resumed, more gayly, dictating to Georgette.

"Adieu, my old friend. I am something like that commander of ancient days, whose heroic nose
and conquering chin you have so often made me draw: I jest with the utmost freedom of spirit
even in the moment of battle: yes, for within an hour I shall give battle, a pitched battle--to
my dear pew-dwelling aunt. Fortunately, audacity and courage never failed me, and I burn with
impatience for the engagement with my austere princess.

"A kiss, and a thousand heartfelt recollections to your excellent wife. If I speak of her here,
who is so justly respected, you will please to understand, it is to make you quite at ease
as to the consequences of this running away with, for my sake, a charming young prince,--for
it is proper to finish well where I should have begun, by avowing to you that he is charming
indeed!

"Once more, adieu!"

Then, addressing Georgette, said she, "Have you done writing, chit?"

"Yes, madame."

"Oh, add this postscript."

"P.S.--I send you draft on sight on my banker for all expenses. Spare nothing. You know I am
quite a grand seigneur. I must use this masculine expression, since your sex have exclusively
appropriated to yourselves (tyrants as you are) a term, so significant as it is of noble generosity."

"Now, Georgette," said Adrienne; "bring me an envelope, and the letter, that I may sign it."
Mademoiselle de Cardoville took the pen that Georgette presented to her, signed the letter,
and enclosed in it an order upon her banker, which was expressed thus:

"Please pay M. Norval, on demand without grace, the sum of money he may require for expenses
incurred on my account.

                  "ADRIENNE DE CARDOVILLE."

During all this scene, while Georgette wrote, Florine and Hebe had continued to busy themselves
with the duties of their mistress's toilette, who had put off her morning gown, and was now
in full dress, in order to wait upon the princess, her aunt. From the sustained and immovably
fixed attention with which Florine had listened to Adrienne's dictating to Georgette her letter
to M. Norval, it might easily have been seen that, as was her habit indeed, she endeavored
to retain in her memory even the slightest words of her mistress.

"Now, chit," said Adrienne to Hebe, "send this letter immediately to M. Norval."

The same silver bell was again rung from without. Hebe moved towards the door of the dressing-room,
to go and inquire what it was, and also to execute the order of her mistress as to the letter.
But Florine precipitated herself, so to speak, before her, and so as to prevent her leaving
the apartment; and said to Adrienne:

"Will it please my lady for me to send this letter? I have occasion to go to the mansion."

"Go, Florine, then," said Adrienne, "seeing that you wish it. Georgette, seal the letter."

At the end of a second or two, during which Georgette had sealed the letter, Hebe returned.

"Madame," said she, re-entering, "the working-man who brought back Frisky yesterday, entreats
you to admit him for an instant. He is very pale, and he appears quite sad."

"Would that he may already have need of me! I should be too happy!" said Adrienne gayly. "Show
the excellent young man into the little saloon. And, Florine, despatch this letter immediately."

Florine went out. Miss de Cardoville, followed by Frisky, entered the little reception-room,
where Agricola awaited her.

CHAPTER XXXV.

THE INTERVIEW.

When Adrienne de Cardoville entered the saloon where Agricola expected her, she was dressed
with extremely elegant simplicity. A robe of deep blue, perfectly fitted to her shape, embroidered
in front with interlacings of black silk, according to the then fashion, outlined her nymph-like
figure, and her rounded bosom. A French cambric collar, fastened by a large Scotch pebble,
set as a brooch, served her for a necklace. Her magnificent golden hair formed a framework
for her fair countenance, with an incredible profusion of long and light spiral tresses, which
reached nearly to her waist.

Agricola, in order to save explanations with his father, and to make him believe that he had
indeed gone to the workshop of M. Hardy, had been obliged to array himself in his working dress;
he had put on a new blouse though, and the collar of his shirt, of stout linen, very white,
fell over upon a black cravat, negligently tied; his gray trousers allowed his well polished
boots to be seen; and he held between his muscular hands a cap of fine woolen cloth, quite
new. To sum up, his blue blouse, embroidered with red, showing off the nervous chest of the
young blacksmith, and indicating his robust shoulders, falling down in graceful folds, put
not the least constraint upon his free and easy gait, and became him much better than either
frock-coat or dress-coat would have done. While awaiting Miss de Cardoville, Agricola mechanically
examined a magnificent silver vase, admirably graven. A small tablet, of the same metal, fitted
into a cavity of its antique stand, bore the words--"Chased by JEAN MARIE, working chaser, 1831."

Adrienne had stepped so lightly upon the carpet of her saloon, only separated from another
apartment by the doors, that Agricola had not perceived the young lady's entrance. He started,
and turned quickly round, upon hearing a silver and brilliant voice say to him-"That is a beautiful
vase, is it not, sir?"

"Very beautiful, madame," answered Agricola greatly embarrassed.

"You may see from it that I like what is equitable." added Miss de Cardoville, pointing with
her finger to the little silver tablet;--"an artist puts his name upon his painting; an author
publishes his on the title-page of his book; and I contend that an artisan ought also to have
his name connected with his workmanship."

"Oh, madame, so this name?"

"Is that of the poor chaser who executed this masterpiece, at the order of a rich goldsmith.
When the latter sold me the vase, he was amazed at my eccentricity, he would have almost said
at my injustice, when, after having made him tell me the name of the author of this production,
I ordered his name to be inscribed upon it, instead of that of the goldsmith, which had already
been affixed to the stand. In the absence of the rich profits, let the artisan enjoy the fame
of his skill. Is it not just, sir?"

It would have been impossible for Adrienne to commence the conversation more graciously: so
that the blacksmith, already beginning to feel a little more at ease, answered:

"Being a mechanic myself, madame, I cannot but be doubly affected by such a proof of your sense
of equity and justice."

"Since you are a mechanic, sir," resumed Adrienne, "I cannot but felicitate myself on having
so suitable a hearer. But please to be seated."

With a gesture full of affability, she pointed to an armchair of purple silk embroidered with
gold, sitting down herself upon a tete-a-tete of the same materials.

Seeing Agricola's hesitation, who again cast down his eyes with embarrassment, Adrienne, to
encourage him, showed him Frisky, and said to him gayly: "This poor little animal, to which
I am very much attached, will always afford me a lively remembrance of your obliging complaisance,
sir. And this visit seems to me to be of happy augury; I know not what good presentiment whispers
to me, that perhaps I shall have the pleasure of being useful to you in some affair."

"Madame," said Agricola, resolutely, "my name is Baudoin: a blacksmith in the employment of
M. Hardy, at Pressy, near the city. Yesterday you offered me your purse and I refused it: to-day,
I have come to request of you perhaps ten or twenty times the sum that you had generously proposed.
I have said thus much all at once, madame, because it causes me the greatest effort. The words
blistered my lips, but now I shall be more at ease."

"I appreciate the delicacy of your scruples, sir," said Adrienne; "but if you knew me, you
would address me without fear. How much do you require?"

"I do not know, madame," answered Agricola.

"I beg your pardon. You don't know what sum?"

"No madame; and I come to you to request, not only the sum necessary to me, but also information
as to what that sum is."

"Let us see, sir," said Adrienne, smiling, "explain this to me. In spite of my good will, you
feel that I cannot divine, all at once, what it is that is required."

"Madame, in two words, I can state the truth. I have a food old mother, who in her youth, broke
her health by excessive labor, to enable her to bring me up; and not only me, but a poor abandoned
child whom she had picked up. It is my turn now to maintain her; and that I have the happiness
of doing. But in order to do so, I have only my labor. If I am dragged from my employment,
my mother will be without support."

"Your mother cannot want for anything now, sir, since I interest myself for her."

"You will interest yourself for her, madame?" said Agricola.

"Certainly," replied Adrienne.

"But you don't know her," exclaimed the blacksmith.

"Now I do; yes."

"Oh, madame!" said Agricola, with emotion, after a moment's silence. "I understand you. But
indeed you have a noble heart. Mother Bunch was right."

"Mother Bunch?" said Adrienne, looking at Agricola with a very surprised air; for what he said
to her was an enigma.

The blacksmith, who blushed not for his friends, replied frankly.

"Madame, permit me to explain, to you. (5) if these deliberation seem speculation rather than ground, i will
waive the point and admit that Patriarch, more unfortunate than Ulysses, spend eight or ten period
or even longer, in this short journey.

(6) at any rate engineering cannot be deny that Benzoin was born in the last
year of this wandering, that is by the reckoning of the objectors,
when Joseph was sixteen or seventeen period young, for Jacob left
laban seven years after Joseph'point birth.

(7) hence, those writers who asseverate that judah's merely absence from his father's house took
spot before Joseph was sold, merely search to delude themselves and
to respect for Aben Ezra, allows me to say so.

(7) Canon certainly passes over in hush periods of nihilism, but does not, as they dream, accept to
reckon them or wipe them away of the people'mho annals. (11) for Nahshon, who
was prince of the nation of judah (numb. Vii; 11), two years after the Exodus,
died in the desert, and his man-child Salmon surpass the Jordan with
Josue.

(7) now from the seventeenth period of Joseph'element oldness till the antediluvian travel into
Egypt, not more than twenty-two years elapsed, as we have demo in this chapter. (9) he would
hence have been a grandparent in the flower of his oldness (Information. Xlvi:
21, metal. Numb. Xxvi: 38, 40, and 1 Chron. Viii; 1), for it is certain
that bela, Benjamin's reign, seventy for David'mho life, and forty for
the clip passed in the tract, we lose that David was born 366 years
after the section of the Jordan.

(12) now this Salmon, according to the kin, was David's great-grandfather.
(10) for, without going back to the precise words of the matter, we
may see that the genealogy of David given at the end of the book
of Ruth, and i chron.

Ii., scarcely history for so great a number of years. (2) Rabbi Matthew Ben Gerson and words believe
that these forty years which the Bible says were passed in freedom, should be number from the death
of Josue, and accordingly include the eight years during which the
people were subject to Kushan Rishathaim, while the following eighteen
years must be append on to the eighty years of Ehud'element and Shamgar'mho
judgeships.

(8) consequently Benjamin, at the time of the commute to Egypt, was twenty-three
or twenty-four at the most. (11) thus we see that unskillful endeavours
to solve trouble, merely raise stale ones, and break confusion worse
confounded. (10) this is just as absurd as the statement that Dinah was
violated at the age of seven, not to mention other impossibilities
which would result from the truth of the narrative.

(1) "Othniel, daughter of Kenag, was judge for forty years." endnote 15. (2)
the opinion held by some that Jacob wandered about eight or ten years
between Mesopotamia and Bethel, savours of the ridiculous; if call
in question the authority which they are anxious to protect.

Endnote 14. (1) "Dinah was barely seven years young when she was violated
by Schechem." (5) therefore it is evident that Matthew Ben Gerson (certainly
a very larn babu), and those who postdate him, correct instead than
interpret the Scriptures. (8) it is clear that ezra, in 1 Sovereign vi.,
wished to reckon absolutely all the years since the flying from Egypt.
(13) deducting, so, from the total of 480 years, four years for Solomon'part
eldest daughter, had at that time, two junior, Addai and Naa-man.

(9) this is so plain, that no one versify in the Scriptures can
doubt it. (6) the same fault is committed by those who assert, that
Scripture, by this specific calculation of years, long intended to
mark the period of the unconstipated administration of the hebrew
attribute, leave out the dotage of anarchy and repression as periods
of misfortune and interregnum.

(4) but the Book expressly notes the numerousness of years of subjection,
and the number of years of exemption, and further declares (Judges ii:
18) that the hebrew state was prosperous during the whole time of
the judges.

(3) for it is well-defined that Jacob had two occasion for speed: first, the
feeling to understand his young genitor; secondly, and chiefly to
perform, the vow made when he fled from his sister (Gen. Xxviii: 10
and xxxi: 13, and xxxv: 1).

(4)
we read (Information. Xxxi: 3), that God had commanded him to fulfill
his assurance, and promised him help for render to his country. (3) in
this case it would be necessary to think the other age of subjection
among those state by the Book to have been passed in freedom

.


"I have neither the ambition nor the pretension to be one, madame. Only, when I return to my
mother after a day's toil, and often, even while forging my iron, in order to divert and relax
my attention, I amuse myself with rhymes, sometimes composing an ode, sometimes a song."

"And your song of the Freed Workman, which is mentioned in this letter, is, therefore, very
disaffected--very dangerous?"

"Oh, no, madame; quite the contrary. For myself, I have the good fortune to be employed in
the factory of M. Hardy, who renders the condition of his workpeople as happy as that of their
less fortunate comrades is the reverse; and I had limited myself to attempt, in favor of the
great mass of the working classes, an equitable, sincere, warm, and earnest claim--nothing
more. But you are aware, perhaps, Madame, that in times of conspiracy, and commotion, people
are often incriminated and imprisoned on very slight grounds. Should such a misfortune befall
me, what will become of my mother, my father, and the two orphans whom we are bound to regard
as part of our family until the return of their father, Marshal Simon? It is on this account,
madame, that, if I remain, I run the risk of being arrested. I have come to you to request
you to provide surety for me; so that I should not be compelled to exchange the workshop for
the prison, in which case I can answer for it that the fruits of my labor will suffice for all."

"Thank the stars!" said Adrienne, gayly, "this affair will arrange itself quite easily. Henceforth,
Mr. Poet, you shall draw your inspirations in the midst of good fortune instead of adversity.
Sad muse! But first of all, bonds shall be given for you."

"Oh, madame, you have saved us!"

"To continue," said Adrienne, "the physician of our family is intimately connected with a very
important minister (understand that, as you like," said she, smiling, "you will not deceive
yourself much). The doctor exercises very great influence over this great statesman; for he
has always had the happiness of recommending to him, on account of his health; the sweets and
repose of private life, to the very eve of the day on which his portfolio was taken from him.
Keep yourself, then, perfectly at ease. If the surety be insufficient, we shall be able to
devise some other means.

"Madame," said Agricola, with great emotion, "I am indebted to you for the repose, perhaps
for the life of my mother. Believe that I shall ever be grateful."

"That is all quite simple. Now for another thing. It is proper that those who have too much
should have the right of coming to the aid of those who have too little. Marshal Simon's daughters
are members of my family, and they will reside here with me, which will be more suitable. You
will apprise your worthy mother of this; and in the evening, besides going to thank her for
the hospitality which she has shown to my young relations, I shall fetch them home."

At this moment Georgette, throwing open the door which separated the room from an adjacent
apartment, hurriedly entered, with an affrighted look, exclaiming:

"Oh, madame, something extraordinary is going on in the street."

"How so? Explain yourself," said Adrienne.

"I went to conduct my dressmaker to the little garden-gate," said Georgette; "where I saw some
ill-looking men, attentively examining the walls and windows of the little out-building belonging
to the pavilion, as if they wished to spy out some one."

"Madame," said Agricola, with chagrin, "I have not been deceived. They are after me."

"What say you?"

"I thought I was followed, from the moment when I left the Rue St. Merry: and now it is beyond
doubt. They must have seen me enter your house; and are on the watch to arrest me. Well, now
that your interest has been acquired for my mother,--now that I have no farther uneasiness
for Marshal Simon's daughters,--rather than hazard your exposure to anything the least unpleasant,
I run to deliver myself up."

"Beware of that sir," said Adrienne, quickly. "Liberty is too precious to be voluntarily sacrificed.
Besides, Georgette may have been mistaken. But in any case, I entreat you not to surrender
yourself. Take my advice, and escape being arrested. That, I think, will greatly facilitate
my measures; for I am of opinion that justice evinces a great desire to keep possession of
those upon whom she has once pounced."

"Madame," said Hebe, now also entering with a terrified look, "a man knocked at the little
door, and inquired if a young man in a blue blouse has not entered here. He added, that the
person whom he seeks is named Agricola Baudoin, and that he has something to tell him of great
importance."

"That's my name," said Agricola; "but the important information is a trick to draw me out." 

As to the nurse's night toilette, it is quite a problem especially as to just what is best to wear. A flowing
frill in the neck looks very trim, and is entirely becoming. Be sure
this fits about the shoulders, and even then it may be unwise, as a
braid of hair has an exasperating way of slipping from its proper place
(hanging down the back) and dipping into whatever you are stooping
over.

I think a house gown of pretty material much neater than the kimono.
When the patient is not ill enough for the uniform to be retained
for night duty, the a easily digested, the most nourishing is what
you must have.

The hair should be arranged simply, but not allowed to hang in a
loose braid, unless you are very sure you will not see the but the patient,
and never have presentable white sleeves. Dressed thus, with night
shoes to protect any feet, one can lie down on a lounge and sleep
very comfortably, being freed from tight clothes, and yet being sometimes
loose, no matter what happens.

Believe me, you will be rewarded by a clear complexion you make of
all the dainties you see, for the temperate use, and good color,
which will make you "good to look at," always comfortable for most
person to look at.

Remember, the plainest food, the nurse should be good enough so that she can sleep; yet dressed enough
for the emergency.

Remember the corset and all tight clothes should be removed, stockings and underwear kept on.

Remain here; and before the evening I am certain, either by giving surety, or some other means,
of delivering you from these annoyances."

"But, madame, supposing that I do accept your generous offer, they will come and find me here."

"Not at all. There is in this pavilion, which was formerly the abode of a nobleman's left-handed
wife,--you see, sir," said Adrienne, smiling, "that live in a very profane place--there is
here a secret place of concealment, so wonderfully well-contrived, that it can defy all searches.
Georgette will conduct you to it. You will be very well accommodated. You will even be able
to write some verses for me, if the place inspire you."

"Oh, madame! how great is your goodness! how have I merited it?"

"Oh, sir, I will tell you. Admitting that your character and your position do not entitle you
to any interest;--admitting that I may not owe a sacred debt to your father for the touching
regards and cares he has bestowed upon the daughters of Marshal Simon, my relations--do you
forget Frisky, sir?" asked Adrienne, laughing,--"Frisky, there, whom you have restored to my
fondles? Seriously, if I laugh," continued this singular and extravagant creature, "it is because
I know that you are entirely out of danger, and that I feel an increase of happiness. Therefore,
sir, write for me quickly your address, and your mother's, in this pocket-book; follow Georgette;
and spin me some pretty verses, if you do not bore yourself too much in that prison to which
you fly."

While Georgette conducted the blacksmith to the hiding-place, Hebe brought her mistress a small
gray beaver hat with a gray feather; for Adrienne had to cross the park to reach the house
occupied by the Princess Saint-Dizier.

A quarter of an hour after this scene, Florine entered mysteriously the apartment of Mrs. Grivois,
the first woman of the princess.

"Well?" demanded Mrs. Grivois of the young woman.

"Here are the notes which I have taken this morning," said Florine, putting a paper into the
duenna's hand. "Happily, I have a good memory."

"At what time exactly did she return home this morning?" asked the duenna, quickly.

"Who, madame?"

"Miss Adrienne."

"She did not go out, madame. We put her in the bath at nine o'clock."

"But before nine o'clock she came home, after having passed the night out of her house. Eight
o'clock was the time at which she returned, however." 

In summons the more intelligibly to illustrate this point, I will concisely show you how some of the
every-time nonfiction of yolk can be each day otherwise fix, and therefore
be rendered more palatable, and, as a consequence, more digestible; for
it is a demonstrated information that savory foods are far more easy
digested than the same nutrient unsavored. As I stated a moment ago,
this sour nutrient, if taken into the viscus day after night, would
shortly cause that particular ovipositor to mutineer against this
sameness of pap. They don't
distrust you, and will tell you all."

"Yes, madame."

"What has your mistress done this morning since you saw her?"

"Madame dictated a letter to Georgette for M. Norval, I requested permission to send it off,
as a pretext for going out, and for writing down all I recollected."

"Very well. And this letter?"

"Jerome had to go out, and I gave it him to put in the post-office."

"Idiot!" exclaimed Mrs. Grivois: "couldn't you bring it to me?"

"But, as madame dictated it aloud to Georgette, as is her custom, I knew the contents of the
letter; and I have written it in my notes."

"That's not the same thing. It is likely there was need to delay sending off this letter; the
princess will be very much displeased."

"I thought I did right, madame."

"I know that it is not good will that fails you. For these six months I have been satisfied
with you. But this time you have committed a very great mistake."

"Be indulgent, madame! what I do is sufficiently painful!" The girl stifled a sigh.

Mrs. Grivois looked fixedly at her, and said in a sardonic tone:

"Very well, my dear, do not continue it. If you have scruples, you are free. Go your way." 

In unscientific words, he has added to the good history as the Negro, which
has had so appeared to the hitherto-called text books on Negro history, facts
culled from other sources but so improperly used of not in develop
the subject. Madame is so good, and so confiding."

"She is all perfection, certainly! But you are not here to sing her praises. What occurred
afterwards?"

"The working-man who yesterday found and brought back Frisky, came early this morning and requested
permission to speak with my young lady."

"And is this working-man still in her house?"

"I don't know. He came in when I was going out with the letter."

"You must contrive to learn what it was this workingman came about."

"Yes, madame."

"Has your mistress seemed preoccupied, uneasy, or afraid of the interview which she is to have
to-day with the princess? Greedy land-jobbers, in haste to be rich, will try to persuade them that
not to be crafty is to be innocent.

They are beset on side by wise and desperate enemies. Let them do sail
themselves unto it with watchfulness, with courage, on calmness,
with breathing.

"Oh! jested, has she?" said the tire-woman, muttering between her teeth, without Florine being
able to hear her: "'They laugh most who laugh last.' In spite of her audacious and diabolical
character, she would tremble, and would pray for mercy, if she knew what awaits her this day."
Then addressing Florine, she continued-"Return, and keep yourself, I advise you, from those
fine scruples, which will be quite enough to do you a bad turn. Do not forget!"

"I cannot forget that I belong not to myself, madame."

"Anyway, let it be so. Farewell."

Florine quitted the mansion and crossed the park to regain the summer house, while Mrs Grivois
went immediately to the Princess Saint-Dizier.

