RUAHMAH:
  I seek no gain; I only tread the path
  Marked for me daily by the hand of love.
  And if his blindness spared my lord one pang
  Of sorrow in his black, forsaken hour,--
  And if this error makes his burdened heart
  More quiet, and his shadowed way less dark,
  Whom do I rob?  Not her who chose to stay
  At ease in Rimmon's House!  Surely not him!
  Only myself?  And that enriches me.
  Why trouble we the master?  Let it go,--
  To-morrow he must know the truth,--and then
  He shall dispose of me e'en as he will!

SABALLIDIN:
  To-morrow?

RUAHMAH:
        Yes, for I will tarry here,
  While you conduct him to Elisha's house
  To find the promised healing.  I forebode
  A sudden danger from the craven king
  Of Israel, or else a secret ambush
  From those who hate us in Damascus.  Go,
  But leave me twenty men: this mountain-pass
  Protects the road behind you.  Make my lord
  Obey the prophet's word, whatever he commands,
  And come again in peace.  Farewell!

[Exit SABALLIDIN.  RUAHMAH goes toward the tent, then pauses and turns back.  She takes her
lyre and sings.]

  SONG.

  Above the edge of dark appear the lances of the sun;
  Along the mountain-ridges clear his rosy heralds run;
    The vapours down the valley go
    Like broken armies, dark and low.
    Look up, my heart, from every hill
    In folds of rose and daffodil
    The sunrise banners flow.

  O fly away on silent wing, ye boding owls of night!
  O welcome little birds that sing the coming-in of light!
    For new, and new, and ever-new,
    The golden bud within the blue;
    And every morning seems to say:
    "There's something happy on the way,
    And God sends love to you!"

NAAMAN: [Appearing at the entrance of his tent.]
  O let me ever wake to music!  For the soul
  Returns most gently then, and finds its way
  By the soft, winding clue of melody,
  Out of the dusky labyrinth of sleep,
  Into the light.  My body feels the sun
  Though I behold naught that his rays reveal.
  Come, thou who art my daydawn and my sight,
  Sweet eyes, come close, and make the sunrise mine!

RUAHMAH: [Coming near.]
  A fairer day, dear lord, was never born
  In Paradise!  The sapphire cup of heaven
  Is filled with golden wine: the earth, adorned
  With jewel-drops of dew, unveils her face
  A joyful bride, in welcome to her king.
  And look!  He leaps upon the Eastern hills
  All ruddy fire, and claims her with a kiss.
  Yonder the snowy peaks of Hermon float
  Unmoving as a wind-dropt cloud.  The gulf
  Of Jordan, filled with violet haze, conceals
  The rivers winding trail with wreaths of mist.
  Below us, marble-crowned Samaria thrones
  Upon her emerald hill amid the Vale
  Of Barley, while the plains to northward change
  Their colour like the shimmering necks of doves.
  The lark springs up, with morning on her wings,
  To climb her singing stairway in the blue,
  And all the fields are sprinkled with her joy!

NAAMAN:
  Thy voice is magical: thy words are visions!
  I must content myself with them, for now
  My only hope is lost: Samaria's king
  Rejects our monarch's message,--hast thou heard?
  "Am I a god that I should cure a leper?"
  He sends me home unhealed, with angry words,
  Back to Damascus and the lingering death.

RUAHMAH:
  What matter where he sends?  No god is he
  To slay or make alive.  Elisha bids
  You come to him at Dothan, there to learn
  There is a God in Israel.

NAAMAN:
        I fear
  That I am grown mistrustful of all gods;
  Their secret counsels are implacable.

RUAHMAH:
  Fear not!  There's One who rules in righteousness
  High over all.

NAAMAN:
        What knowest thou of Him?

RUAHMAH:
  Oh, I have heard,--the maid of Israel,--
  Rememberest thou?  She often said her God
  Was merciful and kind, and slow to wrath,
  And plenteous in forgiveness, pitying us
  Like as a father pitieth his children.

NAAMAN:
  If there were such a God, I'd worship Him
  For ever!

RUAHMAH:
        Then make haste to hear the word
  His prophet promises to speak to thee!
  Obey it, my dear lord, and thou shalt lose
  This curse that burdens thee.  This tiny spot
  Of white that mars the beauty of thy brow
  Shall melt like snow; thine eyes be filled with light.
  Thou wilt not need my leading any more,--
  Nor me,--for thou wilt see me, all unveiled,--
  I tremble at the thought.

NAAMAN:
        Why, what is this?
  Why shouldst thou tremble?  Art thou not mine own?

RUAHMAH: [Turning to him.]
  Surely I am!  But take me, take me now!
  For I belong to thee in body and soul;
  The very pulses of my heart are thine.
  Wilt thou not feel how tenderly they beat?
  Wilt thou not lie like myrrh between my breasts
  And satisfy thy lonely lips with love?
  Thou art opprest, and I would comfort thee
  While yet thy sorrow weighs upon thy life.
  To-morrow?  No, to-day!  The crown of love
  Is sacrifice; I have not given thee
  Enough!  Ah, fold me in thine arms,--take all!

[She takes his hands and puts them around her neck; he holds her from him, with one hand on
her shoulder, the other behind her head.]

NAAMAN:
  Thou art too dear to injure with a kiss,--
  Too dear for me to stain thy purity,
  Or leave one touch upon thee to regret!
  How should I take a gift may bankrupt thee,
  Or drain the fragrant chalice of thy love
  With lips that may be fatal?  Tempt me not
  To sweet dishonour; strengthen me to wait
  Until thy prophecy is all fulfilled,
  And I can claim thee with a joyful heart.

RUAHMAH: [Turning away.]
  Thou wilt not need me then,--and I shall be
  No more than the faint echo of a song
  Heard half asleep.  We shall go back to where
  We stood before this journey.

NAAMAN:
        Never again!
  For thou art changed by some deep miracle.
  The flower of womanhood hath bloomed in thee,--
  Art thou not changed?

RUAHMAH:
        Yea, I am changed,--and changed
  Again,--bewildered,--till there's nothing clear
  To me but this: I am the instrument
  In an Almighty hand to rescue thee
  From death.  This will I do,--and afterward--

[A trumpet is blown, without.]

  Hearken, the trumpet sounds, the chariot waits.
  Away, dear lord, follow the road to light!

SCENE II. [*]

[*] Note that this scene is not intended to be put upon the stage, the effect of the action
upon the drama being given at the beginning of Act IV.

The house of Elisha, upon a terraced hillside.  A low stone cottage with vine-trellises and
flowers; a flight of steps, at the foot of which is NAAMAN'S chariot.  He is standing in it;
SABALLIDIN beside it. Two soldiers come down the steps.

FIRST SOLDIER:
  We have delivered my lord's greeting and his message.

SECOND SOLDIER:
  Yes, and near lost our noses in the doing of it!  For the servant
  slammed the door in our faces.  A most unmannerly reception!

FIRST SOLDIER:
  But I take that as a good omen.  It is mark of holy men to keep
  ill-conditioned servants.  Look, the door opens, the prophet is
  coming.

SECOND SOLDIER:
  No, by my head, it's that notable mark of his master's holiness,
  that same lantern-jawed lout of a servant.

[GEHAZI loiters down the steps and comes to NAAMAN with a slight obeisance.]

GEHAZI:
  My master, the prophet of Israel, sends word to Naaman the
  Syrian,--are you he?--"Go wash in Jordan seven times and be healed."

[GEHAZI turns and goes slowly up the steps.]

NAAMAN:
  What insolence is this?  Am I a man
  To be put off with surly messengers?
  Has not Damascus rivers more renowned
  Than this rude, torrent Jordan?  Crystal streams,
  Abana!  Pharpar! flowing smoothly through
  A paradise of roses?  Might I not
  Have bathed in them and been restored at ease?
  Come up, Saballidin, and guide me home!

