The Gilpins, A Story of Early Days in Australia, by William H G Kingston.

The story opens with a couple of school-leavers discussing what they will do with their lives.
One of the boys, a Gilpin, whose father is a hard-working farmer, is determined to go along
the same route, but in Australia, as he and his brother have often dreamt of doing.

They reach Australia, and an incident on the Quay in Sydney, where they save a family from
destruction in a carriage whose horses have bolted, makes them valuable friends, leading to
an appointment as managers, or overseers, of a cattle and sheep station somewhere out beyond
the Blue Mountains.  The previous manager had let the place get run down, and was actually
rather a crook.  Some of the other workers on the station were as idle and crooked as he. 
Not surprising as most of them had been sent to Australia for some offence in England.  A few
of the men were decent enough.  There is such resentment among the idle men that they prevail
upon some aborigines to attack the buildings and set them on fire, a plan which is foiled by
one of the better workers.

Eventually the great Australian bubble bursts (the Australian economy is always a bit overheated)
and the Gilpins are ordered to slaughter the cattle and sheep.  They discover a source of salt
on the station, so they are able to salt down some of the meat, which was otherwise going to waste.

Using the opportunity of buying valuable stock cheaply, they acquire the station and start
the business again.  They rescue a drowning man, only to find he is the other schoolboy in
the conversation that starts the book.  We will leave it to you to find out what his adventures
had been.

It takes about 3.5 hours to read this book.

THE GILPINS, A STORY OF EARLY DAYS IN AUSTRALIA, BY WILLIAM H G KINGSTON.

CHAPTER ONE.

Arthur Gilpin and Mark Withers walked down the High Street, arm-in-arm, on their return to
their respective homes from the well-managed school of Wallington.

They were among the head boys, and were on the point of leaving it to enter on the work of
active life, and make their way in the world.  They had often of late discussed the important
question--all-important, as it seemed to them--"How are we to make our way--to gain wealth,
influence, our hearts' desires?"

"For my part, I cannot stand a plodding style of doing things," said Mark.  "It is all very
well for those without brains, but a fellow who has a grain of sense in his head requires a
more rapid way of making a fortune.  Life is too short to be wasted in getting money.  I want
to have it to spend while I am young and can enjoy it."

Arthur was silent for some time.  At length he remarked, "It strikes me, Mark, that the object
of making money is that we may support ourselves and families, and help those who are in distress.
My father often says to James, and to me, and to the rest of us, `I don't want you, when you
enter business, to be thinking only how you can make money.  Do your duty, and act liberally
towards all men, and you will have a sufficiency at all events, if not wealth.'"

"Oh! your father's old-fashioned notions won't do in the world, and certainly won't suit me,
that I can tell you," answered Mark, in a scornful tone.

"My father is considered a sensible man.  What he preaches he practises; and though he has
a very large family, no one calls him a poor man," argued Arthur.  "He says that, considering
how short life is, it cannot be wise to spend the time, as many men do, in gathering up riches
and setting so high a value on them.  But here comes James!  Let us hear what he has to say
on the subject."

"Oh! of course, James has got the same notions from your father that you have, and I am not
going to be influenced by him," answered Withers.

James, however, was appealed to, and answered, "Even if we were to live for ever in this world,
I should agree with Arthur; for, from all I see and hear, I am convinced that wealth cannot
secure happiness; but as this world is only a place of preparation for another, it is evident
folly to set one's heart upon what must be so soon parted with."

Withers made a gesture of impatience, exclaiming, "Come, come, I won't stand any preaching,
you know that; but we are old friends, and so I don't want to quarrel about trifles, when we
are so soon to separate! You stick to your opinion, I will stick to mine, and we'll see who
is right at last."

"If this matter were a trifle I would not press it, but, because I am sure that it is one of
great importance, I do press it upon you most earnestly, though, believe me, I am sorry to
annoy you," said Arthur Gilpin.

"Oh!  I dare say you mean well," answered Withers, in a contemptuous tone.  "But don't bother
me again on the subject, there's a good fellow. You, James, are so above me, that I don't pretend
to understand what you mean."  Saying this with a condescending air, he shook hands with the
two brothers, and entered the house of his father, who was the principal solicitor of the town.

The two Gilpins walked on towards their home.  Their father possessed a small landed property,
which he farmed himself.  He had a very numerous family, and though hitherto he had been able
to keep them together with advantage, the time had arrived when some of them must go forth
to provide for themselves in the world.  James and Arthur had long turned their thoughts towards
Australia, for which part of the British possessions they were preparing to take their departure.
Mr Gilpin, or the squire, as he was called, was looked upon as an upright, kind-hearted man.
He was sensible, well educated, and a true Christian; and he brought up his children in the
fear and admonition of the Lord.

A year passed by: a long sea voyage was over, and James and Arthur Gilpin stood on the shores
of Australia.  Two other brothers, with their sisters, remained to help their father in his
farm at home.  James and Arthur had left England, stout of heart, and resolved to do their
duty, hoping to establish a comfortable home for themselves and for those who might come after
them.  Their ship lay close to the broad quay of the magnificent capital of New South Wales.
They had scarcely been prepared for the scene of beauty and grandeur which met their sight
as they entered Port Jackson, the harbour of Sydney, with its lofty and picturesque shores,
every available spot occupied by some ornamental villa or building of greater pretension, numerous
romantic inlets and indentations running up towards the north; while the city itself appeared
extending far away inland with its broad, well-built streets, its numberless churches, colleges,
public schools, hospitals, banks, government buildings, and other public and private edifices,
too numerous to be mentioned.

The Gilpins, as they were put on shore with their luggage, felt themselves almost lost in that
great city.  They were dressed in their rough, every-day suits, and looked simple, hardworking
country lads, and younger than they really were.

Large as Sydney then was, it was still diminutive compared to what it has since become.  Founded
by criminals, it was unhappily as far advanced in crime and wickedness as the oldest cities
of the old world, though efforts were being then made, as they have ever since continued to
be made, and, happily, not without some degree of success, to wipe out the stain.  The two
brothers stood for some time watching the bustling scene before them.  Huge drays laden with
bales of wool were slowly moving along the quay towards the ships taking in cargo, while porters,
and carts, with ever-moving cranes overhead, were rapidly unloading other vessels of miscellaneous
commodities.  Irish, Negro, Chinese, and Malay porters were running here and there; cabs and
carts were driving about, and other persons on foot and on horseback, mostly in a hurry, evidently
with business on their hands.  There were, however, a few saunterers, and they were either
almost naked black aborigines, with lank hair, hideous countenances, and thin legs, or men
with their hands in their pockets, in threadbare coats and uncleaned shoes, their countenances
pale and dejected, and mostly marked by intemperance.  Many of them were young, but there were
some of all ages--broken-down gentlemen, unprepared for colonial life, without energy or perseverance,
unable and still oftener unwilling to work.  The brothers had not to inquire who they were.
Their history was written on their foreheads.

"What shall we do next?" asked Arthur.

"I should like to get out of this place as soon as possible."

"So should I, indeed," said James; "but we must go to an inn for the night, ascertain where
labour is most wanted in the interior, and how best to find our way there."

"You and I can scarcely carry our traps any way up those streets; perhaps one or two of those
poor fellows there would like to earn a shilling by helping us," said Arthur, beckoning to
some of the above-mentioned idlers.

The first summoned walked away without noticing them, another stared, a third exclaimed, "Egregious
snob! what can he want?" and a fourth walked up with his fists doubled, crying out in a furious
tone, "How do you dare to make faces at me, you young scoundrel?"

"Pardon me, sir," said James, quietly; "my brother made no faces at you. We merely thought
that you might be willing to assist in carrying our luggage."

"I assist you in carrying your luggage!  A good joke!  But I see you are not quite what I took
you for; and if you'll stand a nobbler or two, I don't mind calling a porter for you, and showing
you to a slap-up inn to suit you," said the man, his manner completely changing.  "You'll have
to pay the porter pretty handsomely, my new chums!  People don't work for nothing in this country."

While they were hesitating about accepting the man's offer to get a porter, thinking that there
could be no harm in that, a country lad, Sam Green by name, who had come out as a steerage
passenger with them, approached.  As soon as he saw them he ran up exclaiming--

"Oh, Master Gilpins, there's a chap been and run off wi' all my traps, and I've not a rag left,
but just what I stand in!"

Sam was, of course, glad enough to assist in carrying their luggage. James apologised to the
stranger, saying he would not trouble him.

"Not so fast, young chum!" exclaimed the man.  "You promised me a couple of nobblers, and engaged
me to call a porter.  I'm not going to let you off so easily!  Down with the tin, or come and
stand the treat!"

The Gilpins were rather more inclined to laugh at the man than to be angry; certainly they
had no intention of paying him.  Perhaps their looks expressed this.  He was becoming more
and more blustering, when a cry from several people was heard; and looking up the street, an
open carriage with a pair of horses was seen dashing down towards the water at a furious rate.
There was no coachman on the box, but that there was some one in the carriage James discovered
by seeing a shawl fluttering from the side, and by hearing a piercing shriek, uttered apparently
as if then, for the first time, the lady had discovered the imminence of her danger.  In a
few seconds the carriage would have been dragged over the quay and into water many fathoms deep.

"Stop the horses!  Fifty--a hundred--five hundred pounds to whoever will do it!" shouted a
man's voice from within.

Right and left the people were flying out of the way of the infuriated steeds.  There was not
manhood enough left apparently in the idle, dissipated-looking loiterers who were standing
near.  Two or three took their hands out of their pockets and ran forward, but quickly returned
as the horses came galloping by them.  The young Gilpins heard the gentleman's offer.

"We don't want that!" cried James.  "Come on, Arthur!"

They sprang towards the carriage, one on each side; and then turning, ran in the direction
it was going, grasping the head-stalls of the animals as they passed, but allowing themselves
to be carried on some way, their weight however telling instantly on the galloping steeds.

Sam Green had remained standing by the luggage, having made up his mind that the suspicious-looking
stranger would decamp with it, if left unguarded.  When, however, he saw that the horses, in
spite of his young friends' efforts, would drag the carriage over, unless stopped, he started
up, with his hands outstretched before him, uttering with stentorian voice a true English "Woh!
woho!" and then, with an arm from which an ox would dislike to receive a blow, he seized the
heads of the horses, already trying to stop themselves, and forced them back from the edge
stones of the quay, which they had almost reached.  Undoubtedly the horses had been broken
in by a trainer from the old country: Sam Green's "Woh! woho!" acted like magic; and the pacified
though trembling animals allowed themselves to be turned round, with their heads away from
the water.  While the elder Gilpin and Sam held them, Arthur ran to open the door, that the
lady and gentleman might alight.  The one was of middle age, the other very young--father and
daughter, Arthur surmised.

"My brave lads, you have nobly won the reward I promised," said the gentleman, as he lifted
out his daughter, who, pale and agitated, still, by the expression of her countenance, showed
the gratitude she felt.

"I am sure that my brother and I require no reward for doing our duty," answered Arthur, blushing
as he spoke.  "Besides, without the aid of that other lad, our fellow-passenger, we should
probably have failed."

"What!  I took you for labouring youths, I beg your pardon," said the gentleman, giving a glance
of surprise at him.

"Our intention is to labour," said Arthur, unaffectedly.

"Ah! you have the stuff in you to command success," said the gentleman. "But I must request
you to accompany me for a short distance, as my daughter prefers walking; and if I once lose
sight of you in this straggling city, I may not easily find you again."

"Thank you, sir," said Arthur; "we have our luggage with us, and must go to an inn; but if
you will favour me with your address, we will call on you before we leave Sydney."

While they were speaking, the coachman, in consequence of whose carelessness in letting go
their heads the horses had run away, came up, and released James and Sam.  Not a word of scolding
was uttered--the gentleman thought a moment.

"Here, Sykes, lift that luggage into the carriage, and drive these young gentleman home; leave
them there, and come back for Miss Fanny and me to the club."

In vain the young Gilpins expostulated.

"I am a determined person, and will have it so," said the gentleman.

Before they looked round, Sam had stowed away their luggage in the carriage, greatly to the
disappointment of the bully, who had, it seemed, been watching for an opportunity to make off
with a portion. The stranger then, almost against their will, forced them into it; and writing
a few lines on the leaf of a pocket-book, gave it to the coachman.  "Come, my friend, you must
go in also," he added, taking Sam by the arm.

Sam drew back, and, touching his hat, exclaimed, "Noa, sir--noa, thank ye.  It 'ud ne'er do
for me to ride wi' the young squires; I know my place better nor that."

A mob such as Sydney, of all British ports, perhaps, can alone produce, had by this time collected
round the carriage.  Sam's remark produced a loud guffaw laugh from among them, and a variety
of observations came rattling down on him, such as "Go it, young Touch-my-hat; the nob will
pay you--he's a nigger with a white face.  I wonder where he was raised? His mother was a dancing
mistress--little doubt of that."

Sam's temper had been irritated from the loss of his property, which he very naturally concluded
had been stolen by some of his tormentors.  He now looked as if he were going to give way to
his temper.  Instead of so doing, however, he turned calmly round with his double fist, and
said slowly, "I'll tell you what, young chaps, a man who respects himself keeps his own place,
and when he meets a gentleman he'd think himself without manners nor character if he didn't
touch his hat to him.  Did any on ye ever see two gentlemen take off their hats to each other?
Well, then, I have; and I should just like to know which was the worst man of the two?  I'll
say another thing--I have mostly found that when I have took my hat off to a gentleman he took
his off to me; and I wonder if his friends laughed at him.  But I suppose some of you are great
nobs yourselves, and know all about what nobs do."

Having thus delivered himself, Sam, giving a contemptuous glance at his opponents, slowly mounted
the box by the side of the coachman.  The gentleman, who had walked on with his daughter, bowed
to the Gilpins as they passed.

"I am afraid that, from taking us to be ploughboys, he now believes we are young noblemen in
disguise," observed Arthur.  "This is a very different style to that in which we could have
expected to have entered Sydney half an hour ago."

"Perhaps he thinks more of the service we have rendered him than we should," answered his brother;
"however, it's a curious adventure, certainly."

"Well, muster, there be rum jokes in this town o' yours," observed Sam to the coachman, after
keeping silence for some time.

"There be, young man," was the laconic answer; "and rum things done."

In this Sam agreed, informing Mr Sykes--for this, he ascertained, was the coachman's name--how
he had lost his property.

"Be thou the young man who stopped the 'osses?" inquired Sykes.

"The young squires did it, and I helped 'em," said Sam.

"And saved my bacon," observed Sykes.

"I say, Muster Sykes, what's the gen'l'man's name?" asked Sam, discovering, perhaps, by the
tone of the coachman's voice, rather than by any perceptible change in his mask-like features,
that he was not ill disposed towards him, and preparing therefore to be confidential.

Sykes informed him that his master's name was Prentiss, that he was a large squatter, that
there were other brothers all well off, and an old father; and that, take him all in all as
masters went, he was not a bad one.  Sam, in return, told him all about himself, and all he
knew about the Gilpins, by which time the carriage had reached the door of Mr Prentiss's residence,
in one of the best parts of Sydney.  It was a handsome house; and a respectable-looking servant-woman,
after a few words from the coachman, showed the Gilpins into a well-furnished dining-room,
their luggage being placed in the hall.

"You'll go with me, young man," observed Mr Sykes to Sam; "you'll be more comfortable than
with the gentry."

To this Sam agreed; and drove round to the back of the house, where he was introduced to Mrs
Sykes, who lived over the coach-house, and numerous Masters and Misses Sykes, thin, sallow,
and remarkably precocious young people, the eldest not being more than ten.  Among this hopeful
family Sam in a few minutes made himself a great favourite.

The young immigrants waited the arrival of their host with no little curiosity, for they knew
less of him than Sam had contrived to learn. In a short time, however, the servant, placing
a tray with meat, bread, fruit, and light wine, begged them to refresh themselves.  This occupied
their time till the arrival of Mr Prentiss.  Perhaps James was disappointed at not seeing the
young lady when her father entered the room.  Mr Prentiss put out his hand, cordially welcoming
them to Australia and to his house; and, begging them to make it their home during their stay,
he quickly drew out from them a statement of their plans and wishes.  "You can make a fair
start," he observed.  "You have the five hundred pounds I promised, very nobly won, too; and
I may give you a few hints besides as to the purchase of stock.  You will, of course, become
squatters--by far the best business for young men of enterprise and activity.  What do you
say to it?"

"We should like nothing better, sir," answered James.  "But--I speak again for my brother as
well as for myself--we cannot accept payment for performing a mere act of duty; your advice
and assistance may be of the greatest value to us, and of that we will gladly avail ourselves.
The young man who helped us to stop the horses must, of course, speak for himself."

"Well, well, I admire your independence and high feeling," answered Mr Prentiss.  "I doubt,
however, that you will find many in this country to consider that you are right; but perhaps
I may be of service to you in the way you desire.  You, of course, will make my house your
home while you remain in Sydney; when you wish to commence your life in the bush, I will send
you up the country to my father and some brothers of mine, who will put you in the way of a
fair start.  Your young shipmate fairly earned a portion of the reward; he also deserves my
gratitude.  He looks as if there was work in him, and to such a person I can be permanently
of use.  Unhappily, numbers of men come out here--they may be counted by hundreds or thousands--who
will not work, or who cannot work; nothing suits them.  They come with pockets full of letters,
expecting first-rate situations with nothing to do.  How can such people be assisted to any
advantage?  Give them money, and they squander it; place them in situations of trust, and they
are dismissed as incompetent, or they throw them up as uncongenial to their tastes.  All we
want in this magnificent country are people who will try to work, and if they do not succeed
in one thing, will turn their hands to something else.  There is ample room, I say, for persons
of every possible description, provided always that they belong to the `try' school."

Mr Prentiss insisted on taking his guests round the town to visit its lions; and greatly surprised
they were to see the wonderful progress it had already made.  "Wool has done it all!  Well
may the golden fleece be our emblem!" he observed.

At the late dinner hour they were introduced to Mrs Prentiss and two daughters--the young lady
they had before seen and a younger sister. All awkwardness soon wore off, and they felt themselves
perfectly at home.  Mr Prentiss had a conversation with Sam, the result of which made him supremely
happy; his satisfaction was not decreased either when, two days afterwards, Sykes brought him
his bag of clothes.

"Don't ask questions, young man," he observed, as he handed them; "there are few of the old
hands I don't know, and I guessed who had your property."

Pleasant as the two young Gilpins found their stay in Sydney, they did not disguise their anxiety
to be off into the country; and their new friend accordingly made arrangements for their journey.

CHAPTER TWO.

A dray, similar in construction to that used by brewers in England, but drawn by oxen, and
laden with all sorts of stores, such as are required on an Australian farm--tea, carpenters'
tools and agricultural implements, groceries and casks of liquor, clothing and furniture--was
making its way towards the north-east from Sydney.  There was the bullock-driver in charge,
with his chum, a newly hired hand, and Sam Green, who walked or sat on the dray; while the
two Gilpins rode alongside on horses, provided by Mr Prentiss.  They were dressed more in the
Australian style than when they landed, and in a way much better suited to the climate.  The
road had been excellent for a hundred miles or more, with numerous villages near it, and a
large proportion of houses of entertainment, so that they had no want of accommodation when
they halted.  They had now for some time left the high-road, and though there were inns, and
occasionally villages, and farms, and stock stations, they had sometimes to depend on their
own resources, and to bivouac in the bush.  This the young immigrants found by far the pleasantest
part of their journey.  The oxen were turned loose to graze at leisure; sticks were collected,
and a fire lighted for boiling the tea-kettle and cooking the damper.  The old hands troubled
themselves very little about their night's lodging; they, like Sam Green, were satisfied with
the bare ground under the dray if it threatened rain, or anywhere near it if the weather was
fine.  A small tent had been provided by Mr Prentiss, which, with some ticking filled with
dry grass, gave the Gilpins a luxurious lodging for the night.  They could scarcely go to sleep
on turning in for their first real night in the bush, from the novelty of the scene and the
prospects opening up to them.  Before dawn they both started up, awoke by the strangest and
most discordant sounds.

"What can it be?" cried James.

"An attack of the blacks," said Arthur, rubbing his eyes.  "But no! Listen!  They are birds,
I verily believe; but the strangest birds I ever heard."

He was right: there was the hideous, unearthly cry of the laughing-jackass, called often the
bushman's clock; the screaming cry of thousands of parrots flying here and there through the
forest; there was the cackle of the wattle-bird, the clear notes of the magpie, and the confused
chattering of thousands of leather-heads; while many other birds added their notes to the discordant
chorus, and speedily banished sleep from the eyes of their hearers.  The stockmen started to
their feet, and hurried off to bring in the oxen and horses; a fire was lighted, tea boiled,
breakfast discussed with considerable rapidity; and, before the sun was up, the party had recommenced
their journey along the dusty dray-track--for as yet it deserved that name rather than a road. Uli' s
master urges him to refuse the invitation to play on the team; but the malicious neighbor talks him
over. Though the Potato Hollowers use all their skill and cunning, even to cheating the umpire, they
lose the game by one point; they must set up the dinner, which ends
in a free fight.

A victory in this comforts Potato Hollow somewhat. But two of the Brandywiners claim damages, and
the local players are afraid of severe judgment if it comes to trial,
it being not the first offense.

They agree to a plan, devised by the malicious neighbor, to let the entire penalty fall on
Uli' s head, so that they can go scot- free.

Uli is to confess himself the guilty party, and in return for this
service the others, all wealthy farmers' sons, will reimburse him
for all expenses and give him a handsome bonus besides.

Uli' s master overhears his neighbor talking to Uli, decides to interfere, and points out to him
the noose into which he is running his head. He advises Uli to demand
a written promise, signed by all, that they will do what has been
agreed upon.

Uli brings home the written promise and shows it to his master; it turns out to be nothing
but a certificate that Uli is the guilty party. Uli is in consternation; but
the master promises to help him out if he will abide by his word
in the future.

Accordingly, Johannes meets the scheming neighbor and advises him to have the other players settle
up and leave Uli in peace, or else Uli may have occasion to show the paper to the governor. Uli
hears nothing more about the affair.] CHAPTER VII HOW THE MASTER
KINDLES A FIRE FOR THE GOOD SEED[ The author points out the disastrous
consequences of giving the servants on a farm only unheated rooms
to live in, and no access to the warm house; on Sundays they seek
warmth in the public- houses or elsewhere, and terrible immorality
results.

Uli feels the need of a warm room to sit in, and the master invites
him into the house.

The maids are at first much put out, and the mistress too; but the
master upholds Uli, and gradually the new custom wins favor and results
in a betterment of all the servants.] CHAPTER VIII A SERVANT BECOMES
PROSPEROUS AND SOON THE SPECULATORS APPEAR[ Uli becomes quite settled
in steady habits, and soon has a nice little sum of money in hand.

But others get wind
of it, and they borrow various sums of him, promising to pay back at
a certain time with interest. Soon Uli' s money is all gone, but he exults
in the thought of his interest. When the time for payment comes the debtors
make excuses; and as time goes on and no money is forthcoming, Uli
becomes anxious.

At length the master notices his distress, finds out the trouble, and helps him to recover most of
what he had lent, admonishing him hereafter to put his savings
in the bank.] CHAPTER IX ULI GAINS PRESTIGE AND IMPRESSES GIRLS[
Uli' s improvement proceeds steadily, and his self- respect with it.

The two maids are greatly impressed by him, and both set their caps
for him.

Stini, the elder, is very ugly and cross- grained, but a good worker
and very thrifty.

Yrsi,
on the other hand, is pretty and sweet- tempered, but lazy and heedless,
and wants a husband so as to avoid working.

Jealously the two watch each other' s attempts to catch Uli, who is drawn
now to Yrsi' s prettiness, now to Stini' s thrift.

Their jealousy finally becomes so furious that Uli begins to cool off, which only makes them the more
eager. Yrsi plans a master- stroke: she uncovers the liquid manure-
pit, and Stini tumbles into it.

When she is finally hauled out, not without difficulty and amid the
gibes of the other servants, she falls like a tigress upon her crowns,
two pairs of shoes, four shirts, and tips.

All hearts are heavy as New Year' s approaches, when the change is
to be made. rival, and the two roll in the dirt and become such a
reeking ball of filth that no one ventures to touch them to pull them
apart.

But Uli has
had enough of them both and is entirely cured, though not of his
desire for marriage.] CHAPTER X HOW ULI SELLS A COW AND ALMOST GETS
A WIFE[ Uli is sent to market with a cow, which he sells at a good
profit.

On the way home he encounters the daughter
of a neighbor, struggling with four little pigs.

She begs his assistance, and as they go along she gives him a glowing account of her father' s
prosperity and the size of her dowry. She invites him into a tavern
on the way, and they take some refreshment together. Then she goes on about herself--
how strong she is, and how much work she can do, and what a good catch
she would make. Uli cannot get in a word edgewise, but is mightily impressed
by her imposing vigor and her father' s wealth, so that he goes home
with his head in a whirl.

The master and his wife are pleased with Uli' s success, and the master hands over to Uli the
profit he has made on the cow. Uli asks the master about the neighbor'
s Katie, saying that he thinks she would have him.

The master, however, strongly dissuades shoulder him, pointing out that Katie might make a good
field door open, and there was the carter calmly currying horses." Don' t you hear when you' re
called?" cried Joggeli." I didn' t hear anything."" Then prick up your ears and come and take
the horse." He' d have to make room for it first, growled the fellow,-
hand, but not a good wife.

She can make hay, but not soup; and there is not so much wealth,
for the farm is badly managed.

The boys will get the land, and the girls can take the leavings,
which will not amount to very much.

Besides, the girls are spoiled and will not know what to do on a small farm, after being used to
a big one; and if Uli stays there he will simply be a servant without pay. Uli sees that the
master is right, and decides to think no more of the matter.] CHAPTER XI HOW DESIRES TAKE FORM IN A
SERVANT, AND HOW A GOOD MASTER REALIZES THEM[ Uli gradually reaches something
like perfection, and his savings amount to a handsome sum.

But the money seems to come too slowly, and he begins to feel impatient. The master is at first
vexed, but sees that he must either pay Uli what will satisfy him, or let him go. Uli suggests
buying or renting something, but the master will not hear to it; Uli has too little money for that.
Then one autumn the master goes to market and encounters there a cousin, Joggeli, who has come,
he says, to see Johannes. Joggeli tells his troubles: he and his wife are getting old and decrepit,
and can no longer look after their large farm as formerly to. Their son Johannes has become too
stuck- up for the farm and now runs a tavern; their daughter is good for nothing, incompetent and
lazy. The overseer whom he has had for eleven years has been cheating him right and left, and the
other servants are hand in glove with him. Joggeli desires a new overseer, a first- class man
on whom he can depend; he would pay as high as a hundred crowns if he could find what he wants.
Johannes recommends Uli, and Joggeli comes to have a look at him.
He does his best to find some fault in him, but can discover none.

Johannes
and his wife are both reluctant to let Uli go, but they think it
is for his good, and so Uli is induced to hire out to Joggeli for
sixty The master himself plans to drive Uli over to his new place.]
CHAPTER XII HOW ULI LEAVES HIS OLD PLACE AND REACHES HIS NEW ONE On
the following morning the sleigh was made ready and the box fastened
on it, and Uli had to breakfast with the family in the living- room--
coffee, cheese, and pancakes.

When the horse was harnessed Uli him could scarcely go, and when at
last the time came, and he stretched out his hand to his mistress
and said," Good- bye, mother, and don' t be angry with me," the tears
rushed to his eyes again; and the mistress had to lift her apron to
her eyes, saying," I don' t know what for; I only hope you' ll get
along well.

But if you don' t like it come back any time, the sooner the better."
The children would scarcely let him go; it seemed as if his heart
would break when the master finally told them to let loose, that they
must start if they wanted to get there today, and it wouldn' t be
the last time they were to see each other; but that now there was
no help for it.

When they drove away the mistress kept wiping her eyes for a long time,
and had to comfort the children, who, it seemed, could not stop weeping
and lamenting.

In silence the two men drove over the gleaming snow." Steady!" the master had to say occasionally, when
the wild Blazer struck into a gallop, pulling the light sleigh along
like the wind and kicking the snow high in the air." It distresses
me," said Uli," and more and more, the nearer we get; it' s so hard for me!
I can' t believe that I' m not running into misfortune; it seems
as if it was right ahead of me.""

That' s natural," said the master," and I wouldn' t take that as a bad omen. Think: nearly ten
years bore ago, when you were a ne' er- do- well and I started you going right, how hard it was for you to
do better, and how little faith you had in the possibility that everything
would turn out right.

But still it did, gradually. Your faith got stronger, and now you' re a lad that can be said to have
won his battle. So don' t be distressed; what you' ve got before you now is all the easier for
it, and ll know where you are-- I wouldn' t like a year of that sort of thing myself." It was a bright,
clear January day as they drove through handsome fields, then between
white fences and glittering trees, toward Slough Farm. This property lay
perhaps ten minutes' walk from Uefligen, was over a hundred acres
in size and very fruitful, but not all in one piece; some fields and
one grass- meadow lay he at some distance.

In wet years it might be swampy in spots, but that could be managed. As they drove up, Joggeli came
stumping on a stick around the house, which stood on rather low ground,
and said that he had been looking for them for a long time, and had
almost thought they weren' t coming; he had become impatient.

He shouted toward the barns, which were built against the house,
for some one to come and take the horse.

No one came. Uli himself had to unhitch and asked where to take Blazer."

Why, is nobody here?" Nobody came. Then the old man went angrily to the stable and pulled the and shot in
among his horses like a hawk in a pigeon- house, so that they dashed at their mangers and kicked,
and Uli only by constant" Whoas" and at risk of life got Blazer into the last stall. There
the carter' s remark. When Uli went back to the sleigh and untied
his box, the wood- cutters were to help him carry it; but for a long
time none stirred. Finally they dispatched the boy, who let the handle
go when they were on the stairs, so that Uli almost tumbled down
backward and only owed it to his strength that he did not.

The room to which he was shown was not bright, keeping was unheated, and provided with two beds.
He stood in it somewhat depressed, until they called to him to come down and get something
warm to eat. Outside, a cheerful, pretty girl received him, nutbrown of hair and eyes, red and
white as to cheeks, with kissable lips, blinding white teeth, tall
and strong, yet slender in build, with a serious face behind which
lurked both mischief and good nature.

And over the whole lay that familiar, but indescribable Something,
that always testifies to inward and outward purity, to a soul which hates
the unclean and whose body therefore never becomes unclean, or never
seems so even in the dirtiest work.

Freneli-- this was the girl' s name-- was a poor relation, who had never had a home and was always
treated like Cinderella, but always shook off the ashes-- a girl who
was never dimmed outwardly or inwardly, but met God and men and every
new day with fresh and merry laughter, and hence found a the worst
thing that can happen is that you' ll come back to me in a year.

Just keep yourself straight and watch out, for my cousin is terribly suspicious; but once he' s taken
your measure, you can put up with him. You' ll have the worst time
with the other servants; go easy with them, little by little, and
in kindness as long as you can; then if that' s no good, speak right
up so that you' home everywhere and made a place for herself in all
hearts, however they might try to resist her; therefore she was often
dearly loved by her relatives even while they fancied they hated her,
casting her out because she was the offspring of an illicit intercourse
between an aristocratic relative and a day- laborer.

Freneli had not opened the door. When Uli came out the brown eyes rapidly swept over him, and
quite seriously Freneli said," I suppose you' re the new overseer; they want you he could find no halter
for a time." Should have brought one," was to come down and get something warm to eat." There
was no need, said Uli, they had eaten something on the way. None the less he followed the fleet
girl to the living- room in silence. In it Joggeli and Johannes were already
sitting at the table, half hidden by smoking meat, both fresh and salted,
sauerkraut and dried pears.

A plump, friendly old woman came to meet him, wiped her hand on her apron, Held it out to him, and said,"
Are you the new overseer? Well, well, if you' re as good as you are handsome, it' ll be all right,
I don' t doubt. Sit down and eat, and don' t be bashful; the food'
s there to be eaten." On the stove bench there sat yet another fast form,
lean, with a white face and pale, lustreless eyes; she acted as if
she were paying no heed to anything, but had a pretty box before her,
and was winding blue silk from one ball to another.

Joggeli was telling about the time he had had with the last overseer,
and what he had had to stand since then, and how it seemed to him that
it had been much worse than he could remember now."

All the torment such a fellow can make you, and you can' t string him up for it-- it' s not right, I swear. It
didn' t use to be so; there was a time when they hanged everybody that stole as much as would pay
for the rope. That was something like, but all that' s changed. It' s enough to make you think the bad
folks have nothing but their own kind in the government, the way it lets' em get away. Why, we
don' t yet hang the women that poison their husbands any more. Now, I' d like to know what' s worse,
to break the men law by killing somebody, or by letting him live;
it looks to me as if one was as bad as the other.

And then it seems to me that if those who ought to maintain the law are the ones to break it, they deserve
no forgiveness of God or men.

Then I think we ought to have the right to put' em where they belong,
instead of having to pay' em besides."

During this long speech of Joggeli' s, which he fortunately delivered
inside his four walls, as otherwise it might easily have brought down
upon him an action for high treason, his wife kept constantly saying
to Johannes and especially to Uli," Take some more, won' t you, that'
s what it' s for; or don' t you like it?

We give what we' ve got-- it' s bad enough; but at least we don'
t grudge it to you.( Joggeli, do fill up the glasses; look, they'
re empty.) Drink keeping, won' t you, there' s more where that came
from.

Our son gave us the wine; they say it' s good; he bought it himself
down in Italy; it actually cost fivepence halfpenny the quart, and
not too full a quart at that."

When Uli did not wish to take any more the old woman still kept putting food before him, stuck the
fork into the largest pieces and then thrust them off on his plate with her thumb, saying,"
Ho, you' re a fine fellow if you can' t get that down too; such a big lad must eat if he wants
to keep his strength, and we' re glad to give it to him; whoever
wants to work has got to eat.

Take some more, do." But at last Uli really could eat nothing more, took up his cap, prayed, and
stood up to go." Stay awhile," said Joggeli;" where are you going? They' ll look after your Blazer,
I gave' em strict orders."" Oh, I' d like to go out and look around a bit
and see how I like it," said Uli." Go then; but come back when you get cold;
you' re not to work today, do you hear," said the mother."

He' ll have something to live through," said Joggeli," they hate like poison to have him come, and I
think the carter would have liked to be overseer. But I don' t care
if they are against each other.

It' s never good to have the servants on too good terms; it always comes out of the master.""
Ho," said Johannes," that' s as you take it. If the servants are on one side and the master on the
other, then he has a hard time and can' t do anything.

But when the servants are all against each other, and each one does his
best to vex the others, and one won' t help another-- that' s bad for
the master too; for after all in the end everything hits the master
and his interests.

I think it' s a true saying that peace prospers, discord destroys. I
don' t just like it here. Nobody came to take the horse; nobody wanted
to help Uli with his box; each one does as he likes, and they don'
t fear anybody. Cousin, that won' t be good. I must tell you, Uli won'
t stay here under those conditions. If he' s to be overseer and have
the responsibility, he wants order too; he won' t let' em all do as
they please. Then there' ll be a fuss; it will all come back on him, and
if you don' t back him up he' ll run off.


As the evening was approaching, the parties agreed to camp together. Fires were lighted, the
triangles erected, and the pots were soon boiling, while the quickly made damper was placed
under the ashes to bake for the coming meal.  None of the party, however, could keep their
seats by the fire long, without being often summoned to their feet, and sometimes to their
saddles, to drive in the straying bullocks.  It seemed as hard work to keep them together when
resting as to drive them forward, but neither master nor men were disconcerted; they rushed
here and there with shout and song and laughter, till they had brought back the straying cattle,
and then they sat down by the fire, or rolled themselves up in their blankets, as if nothing
had happened.  The Gilpins were sorry to part from their new friends, whose frank, hearty manners
had won their regard.  The morning meal of tea, damper, and pork having been discussed, they
rode off in opposite directions.

"Not pleasant information this, our friends gave us last night," said Arthur.  "What can we do?"

"Wait events," answered his brother; "forewarned is forearmed.  We will keep our knowledge
to ourselves, though it will be necessary to advise Green not to trust to any of the men, so
as to be led into mischief by them.  Perhaps the accounts of their misconduct may have been
exaggerated."

Travelling in Australia has its disagreeables as well as its agreeables: there are heavy rains
and fogs and sharp winds in winter; and in summer, scorching blasts and stifling heat, and
biting or stinging insects, flying, and crawling, and hopping, and dust and smoke from bush
fires and the burning trees, and want, at times, of water; but, notwithstanding these occasional
drawbacks, so delightful is the perfect freedom to be enjoyed, the pure, bright atmosphere,
and the general healthfulness of the climate, that in the opinion of most people the advantages
very greatly preponderate.

The brothers had expected to reach the station in the afternoon, but an accident to the cart
caused some delay, and the sun set before it appeared in sight.  Their black guide, however,
assured them that the intervening country was tolerably level and easy, and that as there were
certain woods he knew well, and a river on the other side, they could not miss their way. 
Accordingly they pushed on, though it became so dark that they began to wish that they had
camped at the usual hour. Suddenly, as they reached the confines of a wood, their horses snorted
and started, and refused to proceed--those in the cart very nearly upsetting it by turning
rapidly round; and, had not Sam caught their heads, they would have galloped off in an opposite
direction.  Directly afterwards, a bright light burst forth from the wood and a spectacle appeared
sufficient to make even a stout heart, with any tendency to superstitious feelings, tremble.
From among the trees, just beyond the light, appeared, flitting in and out, some twenty or
thirty blanched skeletons, throwing their bony arms and legs with the greatest rapidity into
every conceivable attitude.  Now they disappeared in the darkness, now again they darted into
light; round and round they went, now seeming to sink into the ground, now leaping into the
air, and often turning head over heels.  All the time not a sound proceeded from the phantom-looking
dancers.  The Gilpins could scarcely help fancying themselves under some delusion.  They rubbed
their eyes.

"What is it?" exclaimed Arthur.  "Horrible! most horrible!  Do you see the skeletons?"

"Indeed I do," answered his brother; "but such things cannot be--are not--at all events."

Sam Green had hitherto been engaged with the horses; he now came up to the point where the
hideous spectacle was visible, and no sooner did his eyes rest on it than he exclaimed, "Run,
squires, run!  If it was mortal foes I'd stick by ye; but that's more than any mortal man can
dare to face.  Oh! this is a terrible country, where the people cannot lie quiet in graves,
but must needs go skipping about without any flesh on their bones."

"The hoighth of ondacency!" cried out Larry, in a voice which showed very little, if any, alarm.
"Murra, go and tell your ugly countrymen that they are frightening the horses, and that they
must turn their other sides to us till we have passed."

This order was given to the guide, who ran fearlessly up to the spot where the skeleton dance
was proceeding, and no sooner did he reach it than the whole vanished like magic.

"It's only some black fellows dancing a Corroborry," said the Irishman, laughing; "you needn't
be in such a mighty tremble, Sam.  We haven't the shred of a ghost out here; there may be some
in the old country, but they're not fond of the salt sea, and couldn't cross it, not if they
were paid for it, except they came out at the expense of the Government, like some other honest
gintlemen I've heard spake of."

The horses, however, were still very unwilling to proceed, and it was some time before they
could be coaxed past the suspicious spot; they then set off at increased speed to get away
from the object of their dread.  The party pulled up for the black, who came running up.  "No
good people," he said, in a low voice; "come here, do bad."

The Gilpins, hearing his remarks, endeavoured to discover the reason of his supposing that
the party of natives they had just passed were badly disposed, but could elicit no further
information from him.  It was more than an hour after this that a glimmering light appeared
ahead, which Murra, the guide, assured them must proceed from the station.  It appeared to
be somewhat above them on the hillside, and they soon afterwards found themselves ascending
slightly towards it.  They had not got far, however, before several large dogs flew out, barking
furiously, towards them.  They and Larry shouted loudly to the hut-keeper to call the animals
off, but no one appeared, and, the dogs contenting themselves with barking, they proceeded
on to the hut, from the window of which the light gleamed out.  The dogs, still loudly barking,
at length roused up a couple of rough-looking men, who staggered out of the door, and, one
of them holding a lamp, stared stupidly at the travellers, at the same time that, with loud
oaths, he shouted to the dogs to be quiet.

"Oh! you are strangers," said the least tipsy; "well, you shall have a stranger's welcome in
the bush; and so you may just go and turn out your horses, and then come and get what you can
inside."

"We've come to take charge of the station," said James, rather nettled; "so, my men, I rather
think that it is your duty to see and make yourselves useful to us."

"Ho! ho!  Pretty sort of masters you'd make over us!" cried the man, holding up the light in
their faces.  "To my mind, you'd better go back to them that sent you."

This was even a worse reception than they had expected; but, perceiving that the man was very
drunk, they saw that it would not be wise to irritate him.

"Well, my man," said James, calmly, "we have pushed on here in the hopes of being welcomed,
but all we will ask now is a supper and a night's rest."

"As you speak us fair, we'll treat you fair, whoever you may be," said the man.  "Come in;
the kettle is boiling, and there's a damper or two ready under the ashes."

The cart having been placed close to the hut, the horses were unharnessed and unsaddled and
turned out to pick up their supper, and the whole party were soon collected in the hut.  The
interior showed evident signs of a late debauch.  There was a rough table in the centre covered
with tobacco-ashes, a broken black cutty, or pipe, some battered tin mugs, and a couple of
empty spirit bottles on their sides, while under it lay a couple of men fast asleep, and another
in the corner. Some kicks from the shoe of their more sober companion, who had brought the
newly arrived party in, roused them up; and he then proceeded to eject them, telling them to
go to Bateman's hut, where they would find shelter.  Grumbling, they staggered out, except
two, who were too far gone to move.  The hut was, as might have been expected, in a very dirty
and untidy condition--so dirty, indeed, that the Gilpins were contemplating camping outside,
when Larry, going out, reported that a storm was brewing, and proceeded forthwith to bring
the contents of the cart inside.  A plentiful though roughly cooked supper was soon on the
table to which all hands did ample justice.  The hut was a long, narrow building, with the
entrance door towards one end, where the mud-built fireplace was formed and the table stood.
In the further end were some bunks, or standing bed-places, and the stores were piled up. 
Larry placed the articles he had brought in the cart across the hut, so as more effectually
to screen off the inner end.  He and the hut-keeper, whom he addressed as Jonas Knoll, appeared
to be old acquaintances, but very few words passed between them.  For the first time since
they had landed, the Gilpins lay down to rest with a feeling that they were not as safe as
they would have been in their own home in England.

Before Larry lay down, after the hut-keeper had gone to sleep, they observed that he put fresh
grease into the lamp and trimmed the wick. More than once James awoke and looked around; everybody
in the hut appeared to be sleeping soundly.  The two stockmen and the hut-keeper especially
were snoring loudly, and not a sound from the outside was heard.  "It is wrong to be giving
way to fear," he said to himself. "These coarse fellows have been indulging, according to their
tastes, in a debauch, and were annoyed at being interrupted.  They would scarcely dare to harm
us even if they wished it.  We must keep a tight rein on them and a careful watch on their
proceedings, without allowing them to discover that they are especially observed, and we shall
do well."

The next morning the hut-keepers and stockmen belonging to the headquarters of the station
made their appearance, sobered, and tolerably respectful in their manner; though there was
an expression in their eyes and a tone in their voices which made the young managers believe
that it would take but little to make them break out into open mutiny.  They were, however,
surprised at Larry's changed manner.  There was an impudent swagger in all he did, and when
ordered to perform any duty, he invariably replied in a way which made his companions laugh,
though he executed the order with promptness.  He seemed to be on familiar terms with all the
people on the station, and to be a favourite among them.  The brothers at once saw that there
was much to do, and many alterations to be made in every direction about the station.  The
huts were in a dilapidated condition--the one intended for their residence was so dirty as
to be scarcely habitable; the stock-yards required repair; and, worse than all, the books were
so badly kept that it was almost impossible to ascertain the number and state of the stock,
either of cattle, sheep, or horses, or of the stores.  The overseer was absent--gone to a distant
run--so they took possession of the books, which had been left carelessly out, with the intention
of verifying them with the actual state of things.  Having made the necessary extracts, they
locked them up and started on horseback, accompanied by Sam, whose practised eye was likely
to prove of great assistance in numbering the flocks of sheep and herds of cattle which were
to be inspected.  They had not made their intention known, and, just as they were starting,
they summoned the most civil-looking of the stockmen, and ordered him to mount his horse and
accompany them as a guide.  As every flock is named, they had no difficulty in indicating the
flock they wished to visit; but they did not tell him till they had got some way from the station,
so that he would have no opportunity of communicating with his companions should he suspect
their designs.  Arrived at a run, they immediately called the shepherd, and ordered him to
make his flock pass before them, when they took careful note of their numbers, appearance,
and general condition.  Having done so, they put spurs to their horses and galloped off to
the next run.  As they had a pocket compass and had been furnished with a rough map of the
country, they had no difficulty in assuring themselves that their guide was conducting them
aright.  The shepherds and stock-keepers looked puzzled, and as not a single remark of approval
or disapproval was uttered, they could not make up their minds how to proceed.  Several of
them would have given much to peep into the notebook which those quiet-looking young men held
in their hands.  Refreshing themselves and their steeds at a stock-keeper's hut, they returned
home late in the evening, satisfied that a large amount of rascality had been going forward,
and that it would require great judgment and determination on their part to put matters to
right.  The next day and the following were employed in the same manner.  Each day confirmed
them more and more in their opinion.  For the present, however, they could only watch the proceedings
of the men under them. They could not dismiss the whole of them, nor could they ascertain who
were the most guilty.  That the overseer was a great scoundrel they had no doubt, and they
therefore agreed that he must at once be got rid of. James had written an account of the state
of things to Mr Prentiss, but doubted whether to entrust it to Larry Killock, who had so completely
identified himself with the other men, that they thought it probable he might give it to them
to read, and so put them on their guard.  They were still in this state of doubt when the time
arrived for Larry to take his departure.  They were sitting in the hut at supper, the work
of the day over, no one but Sam being near, when the Irishman put his head in at the door.
Looking round, and assuring himself that they were the only occupants of the building, he approached
them with his former civil manner.

"It's all pretence, yer honours," he whispered, with his hand to his nose.  "They're big rascals,
every mother's son of them; and I'd give my right hand to be allowed to stop, if I thought
that they'd be doing you any mischief; but I don't think they'll dare to work you harm.  The
worst of them hasn't come yet, and when he does, he'll try to make you believe that he's the
most honest man alive.  But, whist, there's some one coming.  If you'd have the goodness to
kick me out of the hut, and call me an impudent thief of the world, it would keep up appearances."

The brothers heartily thanked the Irishman; but were not obliged to fulfil his last request,
as he managed to run out of the hut before any one appeared.  The following evening, while
they were sitting as before, at supper, a horse's hoofs were heard approaching, and soon afterwards
a man of middle age, dressed in the usual rough costume of the bush, unceremoniously entered
the hut, and, eyeing them with a scrutinising glance, drew up a stool and seated himself at
the table.

"The new managers, I presume, Mr --- I beg your pardon--I forget your name," he began, in a
supercilious tone.  "You have stolen a march on me, and I conclude that I am to be superseded."

"That probably will not rest with us," said James.  "I suppose that if the trustees of the
property find that we can manage it to their satisfaction without help, they will not consider
themselves justified in retaining your services."

The overseer, Mr Basham, as he was called, was very unlike the person they expected to see.
The shape of his features was remarkably good, though the expression was unsatisfactory; his
figure was light and wiry, and capable of enduring considerable fatigue; and his manners were
those of a gentleman, marred somewhat by rough companions and the hard life he had led.  He
saw at once that the young men with whom he had to deal, though inferior to him in knowledge
of the world, possessed an uprightness and firmness of character with which he could not trifle.
He would much have liked to have entrapped them by offering them a share of his profits, but
that plan, it was evident, would not answer with them.  Still he trusted that some way might
be found of securing what he had obtained, if not for making more.

"Well, well, gentlemen, I have always been an unfortunate person, and so we'll drop the subject,
and discuss what is taking place in the great world."

Without more ado he did turn the subject, and showed that he was a man of considerable information,
and had received a superior education. This only made him the more difficult to deal with.
Though he was now free, they suspected strongly that he had been a convict.  They could scarcely
believe that with his abilities he would not otherwise have been employed in some higher position.
After their inspection of the runs, they had been engaged for a day in turning everything out
of the hut, and in having it thoroughly cleansed.  They then re-arranged the furniture and
contents, according to their own taste.  For several days after Mr Basham's return they saw
him hunting about the hut in search of something, and at last he asked them if they had seen
his books. James at once replied that he had, according to the direction of the trustees, taken
possession of them, and should keep them till he received directions to the contrary.  He shrugged
his shoulders as he observed, "My hard fate again!  And so, I suppose, if anything goes wrong,
those books are to be brought as evidence against me, though I may be as innocent as the babe
unborn."  There was a sinister expression in his countenance as he spoke, of which he was probably
unaware, but which convinced the young managers that they must be careful how they dealt with
him till they could receive authority from Sydney to dismiss him.

In spite of all their vigilance and activity, things continued to go on wrong.  Sheep disappeared,
carried off by dingoes, or by the native blacks; the shepherds asserted that cattle strayed,
and could not be recovered; and two valuable horses, intended to be sent to Sydney, for shipment
to India, were missing.  More than once the brothers were inclined to wish that they had commenced
as squatters on their own account in a small way, with only a few honest men around them; yet,
having undertaken their present task, they were not the men to shrink from it.  They came to
the determination, however, not to embark any of their own small capital till they had got
everything to rights, and men under them in whom they could place confidence.  At length the
looked-for authority arrived to dismiss, not only Mr Basham, but any of the men who might behave
ill, or be suspected of malpractices; it being suggested that, as trustworthy men were difficult
to procure, it would be injudicious to proceed on light grounds, at the same time, as proof
positive would in many cases be impossible, it would not be necessary to wait till it was found.
This was throwing a large amount of responsibility on their shoulders, but they determined
to do their duty. Mr Basham received his dismissal with great coolness; but again his features
assumed the expression the Gilpins had before observed.  He claimed as his own a couple of
fine horses, and, placing his personal property on one of these and bestriding the other, early
the next morning he rode off, the last glance of his cold, grey eye leaving an impression which
for many a day remained fixed on the minds of the brothers.

CHAPTER FOUR.

The Gilpins found that the superintendence of a large station did not afford a bed of roses.
All day long they were in the saddle, overlooking twenty stockmen and shepherds, examining
the herds and flocks, and often themselves doctoring any which were found diseased or injured.
This they were obliged to do, in consequence of the ignorance or carelessness of the people
in charge of them.  These, with few exceptions, had been convicts.  Of those who had been convicts,
some were still working out their sentences with tickets-of-leave, while others, who were free
to go where they liked, were too old and destitute of energy to venture on a change of occupation,
and remained as before, hut-keepers or shepherds.  At each inferior station there was a hut
with a hut-keeper, whose duty was to look after the hut, to cook the provisions, and to tend
the sheep or cattle brought for any special purpose into the fold or pen.  The office was usually
held by some old convict or other person unfit for hard labour.  Though occasionally there
is enough to do, it is considered an idle, lazy life.

The brothers often rode together to the stations, to assist each other; but they had lately,
for the sake of covering more ground in the course of the day, taken separate districts, that
the stockmen might be kept constantly on the alert, not knowing any moment when the active
young managers might pay them a visit.  Notwithstanding this, cattle and sheep continued to
disappear as before, and they came to the resolution of making every man responsible who lost
an animal, and stopping his wages till it was replaced.  One day, after a hard morning's work,
Arthur Gilpin found himself approaching the rear of a hut, on an out station, at the extreme
end of the territory over which the cattle ranged--the whole being considerably larger than
many a German principality.  The ground was soft, and his horse's hoofs making no noise, it
was not till he got in front of the hut that the dog, ever found as its guardian (either well-bred
deer-hound or cur of low degree), came bounding up towards him, barking loudly.  In this case
the animal was a remarkably handsome deer-hound, of a size and strength sufficient to drag
him from his horse.  The hut-keeper was seated in a rough sort of easy-chair, and was apparently
fast asleep.

"Hillo, my man, call off your dog, or he and I may do each other an injury," shouted Arthur;
"he is a noble brute, and I should not like to hurt him, if I could help it!"

The man started up, a book dropping from his hand.  "Come back, good Brian; come back, sir!"
he cried out.  "I must apologise, Mr Gilpin, for not hearing you; but I was overcome, I believe,
by the heat," he added, as he took the horse from which Arthur had just dismounted.

As the stock-keeper unsaddled the animal, Arthur's eye fell on the open page of the book from
which he had been reading.  It was a superior edition of Horace, well used.

Roughly clad and unshorn and haggard in his looks as the man was, Arthur could not but conclude
that he had once moved among the educated classes of society.  The ever-ready damper and pot
of tea were produced; and Arthur, having satisfied his appetite, made the usual inquiries about
the station.  Everything seemed to be satisfactory.

"You appear to be fond of reading," said Arthur, glancing at the Horace, which had been placed
on a shelf among a few other books.

"Ah! a friend of my early days.  He serves to beguile many a weary hour," answered the hut-keeper,
with a sigh.

Arthur did not like to ask questions.  "We brought a few books with us into the bush; I shall
be glad to lend them to you," he said.

"They will be most acceptable, sir," said the hut-keeper, his countenance brightening; "my
own stock is small, and I have read each volume over and over again till I know them by heart.
I believe that if a chest of new books were to reach me, like the half-starved wretch who suddenly
finds himself in the midst of plenty, I could sit down and read till my eyesight or my wits
had left me."

"I can enter into your feelings," said Arthur kindly.  "The life you lead must indeed be dull."

"Ah! it might be far worse, though," answered the hut-keeper; "poverty out here can scarcely
be said to pinch.  I often ask myself what might it have been, or what certainly would it have
been, had I remained in London till my last shilling was gone.  To rot in a poorhouse or to
sweep a crossing would have been my lot, or there might have been a worse alternative.  I had
enough left to pay my passage out here.  It was a wise move--the only wise thing I ever did
in my life.  My expectations on landing were foolish, and before I could realise them I had
the chance of going to gaol or becoming a hut-keeper."  The last remarks were made as he stood
holding the rein of Arthur's horse.

Arthur rode round the run, inspected the flock, and had to pass near the hut again on his return
homeward.  The hut-keeper, Charles Craven he called himself, was on the watch for him.

"I must have a word with you, Mr Gilpin," he said.  "You are the first man I have met since
I landed on these shores who has sympathised with me.  I would do something to serve you. 
First, I must warn you never to be unarmed, either in your hut or out of it; and especially
advise you and your brother, when you ride out, always to keep together.  Many of the hands
on the station are exasperated with you for your style of proceeding, and they think that if
they could get rid of you they would have things their own way."

Thanking Craven for his advice, Arthur pushed on towards home as rapidly as his grey would
carry him.  He was relieved on finding that James had just before arrived.  He told his brother
of the warning Craven had given him.

James was at first inclined to laugh at it.  "The scoundrels dare not injure us!" he exclaimed.
Then he remembered Basham's revengeful looks, and the surly manner of several of the hands,
and finally agreed with his brother that it would be wiser to go armed, and keep together.

They had removed the hut-keeper to another post, and placed Green in charge of their abode.
This would have been necessary, if for no other reason, for the purpose of having it kept clean
and habitable, which the dirty habits of the former occupant rendered impracticable.  The exact
situation of the hut has not been described.  It stood on a hillside, the ground immediately
round it cleared, but with bush both above it and on either side, extending to a considerable
distance.  In some places the trees were fine and lofty, in others only stringy-bark or low
bushes.  A river passed in front at the distance of less than a quarter of a mile, full and
flowing in winter, but after the heats of summer consisting of a succession of water-holes
connected by a trickling rill. During the shearing season the river was a scene of the greatest
animation, as all the flocks from far and near were driven up to it, that the sheep might be
washed before being deprived of their fleeces. After a sudden downfall of rain, the quiet stream
became a roaring, boiling torrent, sweeping onward with terrific force, now forming a wide
lake, and, once more confined by high and narrow banks, whirling along with rapid eddies; and
at spots, where a few hours before a person could pass on foot, the current would test the
strength of the strongest swimmer or most powerful horse to cross; at other times it relapsed
into a state of silence, not without much picturesque beauty of a tranquil character.  The
hut commanded a view of the river, but it, as well as the sheds, sheep-folds, and stock-yards,
were placed far too high above it to be reached by the widest inundation it could cause.

Arthur did not forget his promise to Craven, and, as soon as he was able, he rode toward his
hut with several books in his pockets.  The hut-keeper was very grateful, and expressed himself
in a way which showed that he was really a gentleman and a man of feeling.  The brothers, as
they rode away, agreed that it would be but an act of common kindness to ask him to visit them,
and that they might send another man to take his place.

Craven considered a moment.  "No; I had better not," he answered; "the men about here look
upon me as one of themselves, and if I were seen with you, I should no longer be trusted by
them.  They are mischievously inclined; and if I can turn them from their purposes, or give
you warning of their intentions, and help, if needs be, it will afford me the satisfaction
of believing that I have been of some little use in the world."

They could not but agree with him, and expressed a hope that an employment more suited to a
person of his education might be found for him.

Craven gave a sickly smile.  "You are young, and think change is easy," he said.  "The sapling
is quickly bent, but when an old tree has long grown in the same direction, it cannot be straightened
again.  Supply me with books and tobacco, and, a few years hence, perhaps, a pair of spectacles,
and I shall have no desire to quit these wilds."

"Perhaps you will change your mind," said James, putting out his hand, which the broken-down
gentleman shook warmly.

Many years had passed since his palm had pressed that of an equal in intellect and education.
It seemed to raise him out of the state of hopeless apathy into which he had fallen.

The hut at headquarters had greatly improved in appearance since it had become the residence
of the Gilpins.  There were three glazed windows, and it was partitioned off into a bedroom,
a sitting-room--where books and papers could be arranged on shelves and kept clean--and a kitchen,
which served as dining-room and hall.  A good-sized storeroom had been built at the back, with
a door opening into the kitchen.  They and Sam Green were the only inmates of the building.

It was late at night, the Bible had been read, and family prayers had been offered up--when
two or three were gathered together that custom was never departed from in that rude hut in
the wilds of Australia-- thanksgivings for past, petitions for future protection.  Sam had
thrown himself on his bed in a corner of the hall, and his loud snoring told that he was fast
asleep.  The brothers had been reading in their sitting-room, and were on the point of retiring
to bed, when a slight tap was heard at the window.  They thought it was some night bird attracted
by the light, and took no notice.  A louder tap was heard; Arthur opened the window.

"Wisht! mister, dear; just let me in, for I've something to say to ye," said a voice, which
he recognised to be Larry Killock's.

"I will let you in by the door, Larry, unless you like to jump through the window," said Arthur.

"The quickest way's the best," was the answer, as Larry leaped through the opening, adding,
"shut the shutters, lest any one's eyes should be looking this way."  Larry was out of breath,
and looked faint and weary, as if he had come a long distance.

"What brings you here, Larry?" said Arthur, in a tone of anxiety, which it was natural he should
feel.

"It's bad news I've to tell yer honours; but if I'd had to lose my life, I'd have come to tell
it," he answered.  "No matter how I found it out, but I did find it out, that the people on
the station, just because you have put a stop to their robberies and rogueries, have determined
to do away with you.  As villains is mostly cowards, there's none of them dares to bell the
cat themselves, and so they've engaged some of them black fellows--the thieves of the world--to
do the job for them.  It was to be done quickly, and I came along, ignorant entirely if I'd
be in time or not to save yer honours' lives; but they've not killed you yet, and we'll see
if we can't be a match for them."  The Irishman went on to say that the plan proposed was to
set fire to the surrounding bush, and that while they ran out, as they naturally would, to
stop the flames from approaching their dwelling, by cutting down the surrounding grass and
bushes, they were to be knocked down with boomerangs by the blacks, and their bodies dragged
into the fire. 

Uli' s master urges him to refuse the invitation to play on the team; but the malicious neighbor talks him
over. Though the Potato Hollowers use all their skill and cunning, even to cheating the umpire,
they lose the game by one point; they must set up the dinner, which ends in a free fight.
A victory in this comforts Hollow somewhat. But two of the Brandywiners claim damages, and the local
players are afraid of severe judgment if it comes to trial it being not the first offense. They agree
to a plan, devised by the malicious neighbor, to not bright, was unheated,
and provided with two beds.

He stood in it somewhat depressed, until they called to him to come down and get something
warm to eat. Outside, a cheerful, pretty girl received him, nutbrown of hair and eyes, red and white as
to cheeks, with kissable lips, blinding white teeth, tall and strong, yet slender in build,
with a let the entire penalty fall on Uli' s head, so that they can go scot- free. Uli is to confess
himself the guilty party, and in return for this service the others, all wealthy farmers' sons, will
reimburse which him for all expenses and give him a handsome bonus besides. Uli' s master overhears
his neighbor talking to Uli, decides to interfere, and points out
to him the noose into which he is running his head.

He advises Uli to demand a written promise, signed by all, that they
will do what has been agreed upon. Uli brings home the written promise
and shows it to his master; it turns out to be nothing but a certificate
that Uli is the guilty party.

Uli is in consternation; but the master promises to help him out
if he will abide by his word in the future.

Accordingly, Johannes meets the scheming neighbor and advises him
to have the other players settle up and leave Uli in peace, or else
Uli may have occasion to show the paper to the governor.

Uli hears nothing more about the affair.] CHAPTER VII HOW THE MASTER
KINDLES A FIRE FOR THE GOOD SEED[ The author points out the disastrous
consequences of giving the servants on a farm only unheated rooms
to live in, and no access to the warm house; on Sundays they seek
warmth in the public- houses or elsewhere, and terrible immorality
results.

Uli feels the need of a warm room to sit in, and the master invites him into the house. The maids are at
first much put out, and the mistress too; but the master upholds Uli, and gradually the new custom wins favor
and results in a betterment of all the servants.] CHAPTER VIII A SERVANT
BECOMES PROSPEROUS AND SOON THE SPECULATORS APPEAR[ Uli becomes quite
settled hanged everybody that stole as much as would pay for the rope.
That was something like, but all that' s changed. It' s enough to make you
think the bad folks have nothing but their own kind in the government,
the way it in steady habits, and soon has a nice little sum of money
in hand.

But others get wind of it, and they borrow various sums of him, promising
to pay back at a certain time with interest.

Soon Uli' s money is all gone,
but he exults in the thought of his interest.

When the time for payment comes the
debtors make excuses; and as time goes on and no money is forthcoming,
Uli becomes anxious.

At length the master notices his distress, finds out the trouble, and helps him to recover most of what
he had lent, admonishing him hereafter to put his savings in the bank.] CHAPTER IX ULI GAINS PRESTIGE
AND IMPRESSES GIRLS[ Uli' s improvement proceeds steadily, and his
self- respect with it.

The two maids are greatly impressed by him, and both set their caps for him. Stini, the elder, is
very ugly and cross- grained, but a good worker and very thrifty.

Yrsi, on the other hand, is pretty and sweet- tempered, but lazy
and heedless, and wants a husband so as to avoid working.

Jealously the two watch each other' s attempts to catch Uli, who
is drawn now to Yrsi' s prettiness, now to Stini' s thrift.

Their jealousy finally becomes so furious that Uli begins to cool off, which only makes them the more eager.
Yrsi plans a master- stroke: she uncovers the liquid manure- pit, and Stini tumbles into it. When
she fatigue is finally hauled out, not without difficulty and amid the gibes silence. In it Joggeli
and Johannes were already sitting at the table, half hidden by smoking meat, both fresh and salted, sauerkraut
and dried pears. A plump, friendly old woman came to meet him, wiped her hand on her apron, Held it out to
him, and said, of the other servants, she falls like a tigress upon her
rival, and the two roll in the dirt and become such a reeking ball of
filth that no one ventures to touch them to pull them apart.

But Uli has had enough of them both and is entirely cured, though not of his desire for marriage.]
CHAPTER X HOW ULI SELLS A COW AND ALMOST GETS A WIFE[ Uli is sent to market with a cow, which he sells
at a good profit. On the way home he encounters the daughter of a neighbor, struggling with four
little pigs.

She begs his assistance, and as they go along she gives him a glowing
account of her father' s prosperity and the size of her dowry.

She invites him into a tavern on the way, and they take some refreshment
together.

Then she goes on about
herself-- how strong she is, and how much work she can do, and what
a good catch she would make.

Uli cannot get in a word edgewise, but is mightily impressed by her
imposing vigor and her father' s wealth the stable and pulled the
door open, and there was deserve no mercifulness of God or men.

Then I think we ought to have the right to put', so that he goes home with his head in a whirl. The master
and his wife are pleased with Uli' s success, and the master hands over to Uli the profit he has made
on the cow.

Uli asks the master about the neighbor' s Katie, saying that he thinks she would have him. The master,
however, strongly dissuades him, pointing out that Katie might make
a good field- hand, but not a good wife.

She can make hay, but not soup; and there is not so much wealth, for the farm is badly managed. The
boys will get the land, and the girls can take the leavings, which will not amount to very
much. Besides, the girls are spoiled and will not know what to do on a small farm, after being used
to a big one; and if Uli stays there he will simply be a servant without
pay.

Uli sees that the master is right, and decides to think no more of the matter.] CHAPTER XI HOW DESIRES
TAKE FORM IN A SERVANT, AND HOW A GOOD MASTER REALIZES THEM[ Uli gradually
reaches something like perfection, and his savings amount to a handsome
sum.

But the money seems to come too slowly, and he begins to feel impatient. The master is at first
vexed, but sees that he must either pay Uli what will satisfy him,
or let him go.

Uli suggests buying or renting something, but the master will not
hear to it; Uli has too little money for that. Then one autumn the
master goes to market and encounters there a cousin, Joggeli, who
has come, he says, to see Johannes.

Joggeli tells his troubles: he and his wife are getting old and decrepit,
and can no longer look after their large farm as formerly.

Their son Johannes has become too stuck- up for the farm and now
runs a tavern; their daughter is good for nothing, incompetent and
lazy.

The overseer whom he has had for eleven years has been cheating him
right and left, and the other servants are hand in glove with him.

Joggeli desires a new overseer, a first- class man on whom he can
depend; he would pay as high as a hundred crowns if he could find
what he wants.

Johannes recommends Uli, and Joggeli comes to have a look at him. He does
his best to find some fault in him, but can discover none. Johannes
and his wife are both reluctant to let Uli go, but they think it
is for his good, and so Uli is induced I to hire out to Joggeli for
sixty crowns, two pairs of shoes, four shirts, and tips.

All hearts are heavy as New Year' s approaches, when the change is to be made. The master himself
plans to drive Uli over to his new place.] CHAPTER XII HOW ULI LEAVES HIS OLD PLACE AND REACHES HIS
NEW ONE On the following morning the sleigh was made ready and the
box fastened on it, and Uli had to breakfast with the family in the
living- room-- coffee, cheese, and pancakes.

When the horse was harnessed Uli could scarcely go, and when at last the time came, and he stretched out
his hand to his mistress and said," Good- bye, mother, and don' t be angry with me," the tears
rushed to his eyes again; and the mistress had to lift her apron to her eyes, saying," I don'
t know what for; I only hope you' ll get along well. But if you don' t like it
come back any time, the sooner the better."

The children would scarcely let him go; it seemed as if his heart
would break when the master finally told them to let loose, that
they must start if they wanted to get there today, and it wouldn'
t be the last time they were to see each other; but that now there
was no help for it.

When they drove away the mistress kept wiping her eyes for a long time, and had to comfort the
children, who, it seemed, could not stop weeping and lamenting. In silence the two men drove
over the gleaming snow." Steady!" the master had to say occasionally,
when the wild Blazer struck into a gallop, pulling the light sleigh
along like the wind and kicking the snow high in the air." It distresses
me," said Uli," and more and more, the nearer we get; it' s so hard
for me!

I can' t believe that I' m not running into misfortune; it seems
as if it was right ahead of me.""

That' s natural," said the master," and I wouldn' t take that as
a bad omen.

Think: nearly ten years ago, when you were a ne' er- do- well and I started
you going right, how hard it was for you to do better, and how little faith
you had in the possibility that everything would turn out right. But
still it did, gradually. Your faith got stronger, and now you' re
a lad that can be said to have won his battle. So don' t be distressed;
what you' ve got before you now is all the easier for it, and the worst
thing that can happen is that you' ll come back to me in a year. Just
keep yourself straight and watch out, for my cousin is terribly suspicious;
but once he' s taken your measure, you can put up with him.

You' ll have the worst time with the other servants; go easy with them, little by little, and in
kindness as long as you can; then if that' s no good, speak right up so that you' ll know where you
are-- I wouldn' t like a year of that sort of thing myself." It was a bright, clear January day
as they drove through handsome fields, then between white fences and glittering trees, toward Slough
Farm. This property lay perhaps ten minutes' walk from Uefligen, was over
a hundred acres in size and very fruitful, but not all in one piece;
some fields and one grass- meadow lay at some distance.

In wet years it might be swampy in spots, but that could be managed. As they drove up, Joggeli came
stumping on a stick around the house, which stood on rather low ground,
and said that he had been looking for them for a long time, and had
almost thought they weren' t coming; he had become impatient.

He shouted toward the barns, which were built against the house, for some one to come and take the
horse. No one came. Uli himself had to unhitch and asked where to take
Blazer."

Why, is nobody here?" Nobody came. Then the old man went angrily to em where they belong, instead of
having to pay' em besides." During this long speech of Joggeli' s, which he fortunately delivered
inside his four walls, as otherwise it might easily have brought down
upon him an action for high treason, his wife kept constantly saying
to Johannes and especially to Uli," Take some more, won' t you, that'
s what it' s for the carter calmly currying horses."

Don' t you hear when you' re called?" cried Joggeli." I didn' t hear anything."" Then prick up
your ears and come and take the horse." He' d have to make room for it first, growled the fellow, and
shot in among his horses like a hawk in a pigeon- house, so that they dashed at their mangers and
kicked, and Uli only by constant" Whoas" and at risk of life got
Blazer into the last stall. There he could find no halter for a
time." Should have brought one," was the carter' s remark. When Uli
went back to the sleigh and untied his box, the wood- cutters were
to help him carry it; but for a long time none stirred.

Finally they dispatched the boy, who let the handle go when they were on the stairs, so that Uli almost
tumbled down backward and only owed it to his strength that he did not. The room to which he was shown
was serious face behind which lurked both mischief and good nature. And
over the whole lay that familiar, but indescribable Something, that
always testifies to inward and outward purity, to a soul which hates
the unclean and whose body therefore never becomes unclean, or never
seems so even in the dirtiest work.

Freneli-- this was the girl' s name-- was a poor relation, who had never had a home and was always
treated like Cinderella, but always shook off the ashes-- a girl who was never dimmed outwardly
or inwardly, but met God and men and every new day with fresh and
merry laughter, and hence found a home everywhere and made a place
for herself in all hearts, however they might try to resist her; therefore
she was often dearly loved by her relatives even while they fancied
they hated her, casting her out because she was the offspring of an
illicit intercourse between an aristocratic relative and a day- laborer.

Freneli had not opened the door. When Uli came out the brown eyes rapidly swept over him, and quite
seriously Freneli said," I suppose you' re the new overseer; they
want you to come down and get something warm to eat."

There was no need, said Uli, they had eaten something on the way. None the less he followed the
fleet girl to the living- room in" Are you the new overseer? Well, well, if you' re as good as you
are handsome, it' ll be all right, I don' t doubt.

Sit down and eat, and don' t be bashful; the food' s there to be
eaten."

On the stove bench there sat yet another form, lean, with a white
face and pale, lustreless eyes; she acted as if she were paying no
heed to anything, but had a pretty box before her, and was winding
blue silk from one ball to another.

Joggeli was telling about the time he had had with the last superintendent, and
what he had had to stand since then, and how it seemed to him that
it had been much worse than he could remember now." All the torment
such a fellow can make you, and you can' t string him up for it--
it' s not right, I swear.

It didn' t use to be so; there was a time when they lets em get away.

Why, we don' t even hang the women that poison their husbands any more. Now, I' d like to know what'
s worse, to break the law by killing somebody, or by letting him live; it looks to me as if one was as bad
as the other. And then it seems to me that if those who ought to maintain
the law are the ones to break it, they; or don' t you like it? We
give what we' ve got-- it' s bad enough; but at least we don' t grudge
it to you.( Joggeli, do fill up the glasses; look, they' re empty.)
Drink, won' t you, there' s more where that came from.

Our son gave us the wine; they say it' s good; he bought it himself
down in Italy; it actually cost fivepence halfpenny the quart, and
not too full a quart at that."

When Uli did not wish to take any more the old woman still kept putting food before him, stuck
the fork into the largest pieces and then thrust them off on his plate with her thumb, saying,"
Ho, you' re a fine fellow if you can' t get that down too; such a big lad must eat if he wants to keep
his strength, and we' re glad to give it to him; whoever wants to
work has got to eat.

Take some more, do." But at last Uli really could eat nothing more, took up his cap, prayed, and stood
up to go." Stay awhile," said Joggeli;" where are you going? They' ll look after your Blazer, I gave'
em strict orders."" Oh, I' d like to go out and look around a bit and see how I like it," said Uli."
Go then; but come back when you get cold; you' re not to work today, do you hear," said the mother."
He' ll have something to live through," Joggeli," they hate like poison to have him come, and I think
the carter would have liked to be overseer. But I don' t if they are against each other. It' s never
good to have the servants on too good terms; it always comes out of the master."" Ho," said Johannes,"
that' s as you take it. If the servants are on one side and the master
on the other, then he has a hard time and can' t do anything. But when the
servants are all against each other, and each one does his best to
vex the others, and one won' t help another-- that' s bad for the
master too; for after all in the end everything hits the master and
his interests.

I think it' s a true saying that peace prospers, discord destroys. I don' t just like it
here. Nobody came to take the horse; nobody wanted to help Uli with his box; each one does
as he likes, and they don' t fear anybody. Cousin, that won' t be
good.

I must
tell you, Uli won' t stay here under those conditions. If he' s to
be overseer and have the responsibility, he wants order too; he won'
t let' em all do as they please. Then there' ll be a fuss; it will
all come back on him, and if you don' t back him up he' ll run off.

  Scarcely had he formed this plan when Larry jumped up, and exclaimed--

"Now, yer honour, you have had watching enough, and I'll just take my spell.  I'm as fresh
as a daisy with the dew on the grass."

James declined doing this, and told him of his proposed plan.

"Nothing like taking time by the forelock!" exclaimed the Irishman. "I've my raisons, and I'll
be off--as soon as I can stow some food in my inside and catch the horse--before it is daylight,
so that it will be a hard job for any of them fellows to find me, even if they have a fancy
for that same."

As there was no time to be lost, James went out and brought in Larry's horse, to which he gave
a sop of damper and spirits and water, while Larry was refreshing himself.

"It's good luck I'll have on a good errand, I hope," he exclaimed, as he leaped into the saddle;
"for though the police and I weren't over friendly once on a time, I can now face them like
an honest man, thanks to yer honour."

Larry was soon lost to sight in the gloom which prevailed at a distance from the yet burning
wood.  Daylight came.  All hands were on foot.  The wounded man appeared to be no worse.  A
sad change had taken place in the once picturesque appearance of the surrounding scenery. 
In the place of the green wood, with many noble trees, a few blackened stems, gaunt and branchless,
with still smouldering ashes at their base, were the only objects to be seen on the hillside.
The Gilpins scarcely liked to keep Craven and his companion from their posts, though at the
same time they felt the importance of having a sufficient guard over their prisoner.  They
were surprised that none of the stockmen or hut-keepers from the neighbourhood had made their
appearance.  It proved but too plainly that all were disaffected; and it made them resolve
not to quit the vicinity of the hut till the arrival of the police.  They could not, however,
come for some hours.  Breakfast was just over, when Green, who had gone down to fetch some
water from the river, came hurrying back, and reported that he had seen several men collecting,
with arms in their hands, on the opposite side.  "Who could they be?  What could be their object?"
was the question.

It was decided that while every precaution should be taken to prevent surprise, they should
be treated as if they could only have come on a friendly errand, and that every attempt should
be made to conciliate them before resorting to force.  Scarcely five minutes had passed before
several men were seen approaching, from the direction of the river, in single file.  They were
all disguised, either with blackened faces or masks, while they wore either kangaroo or sheep
skins over their shoulders, or were covered with the thick-leaved branches of shrubs, so as
completely to conceal their figures.  It was evident that they intended mischief.  They halted
at about twenty paces from the hut, seemingly surprised at finding the windows barricaded and
the door closed, with the muzzles of firearms protruding from the walls.  Seeing their hesitation,
James instantly went out, and, with his rifle in his hand, confronted them--

"Men, you have amused yourselves seemingly with what might be a harmless mummery, were it not
for the weapons in your hands," he began, in a firm tone; "put them down, and let me hear what
you have got to say."

The leading man, after consulting with his companions, replied, "You have got shut up there
a friend of ours, and you must give him up to us, or take the consequences."

"I am not at all likely to yield to demands made by strangers in the tone you make them, or
to tell you whether or not we have any one shut up inside this hut," said James; "you will
risk your own lives, and gain nothing by persisting in such folly."

"Yours is the folly, master, in refusing our demands!" exclaimed the man.  "You can gain no
good by keeping the man a prisoner, but will do him and us harm!"

While the man was speaking, he and his companions advanced still closer to the hut.

"Stand back!" cried James, endeavouring to bring his piece to his shoulder; but before he had
done so, the men, stooping low, sprang forward, keeping him between themselves and the hut.
Those inside opened the door to admit him, but instead of retreating he stood fast, till the
leader of the ruffians had struck up his rifle, and, grasping him by the throat, bore him backwards.
Arthur, rushing out to his rescue, was seized likewise, and the whole party dashed together
into the hut, overthrowing Green, who came out to help his young masters. Fortunately their
eyes first fell on the wounded man as he lay on a bed in the outer room.  The stretcher of
boughs, on which he had been brought to the hut, still remained outside.  A few words passed
between them.  They lifted him on the litter, neither the Gilpins nor Green being able to prevent
them, and, with a shout of triumph, they carried him off towards the river.  The Gilpins and
Green were quickly on their feet.  For an instant they stood irresolute whether to follow.

"Do not attempt it," cried a voice from within; "the villains will not scruple to fire if you do."

It was Craven who spoke.  James was inclined to accuse him of cowardice till he reflected at
what risk he had come voluntarily to their assistance.  Craven himself, too, explained that
being assured the outlaws would murder him and his companion had they seen them, they had retreated
into the storeroom, where they lay hid among casks and cases. It was provoking to have lost
their prisoner, but at the same time they had reason to be thankful that no life had been sacrificed.

"If they find out from Basham that we are here, they will to a certainty return," observed
Craven; "and we must be prepared."

"The police will be here by that time," was Arthur's remark.  "If they come, we may follow,
and we should have our horses ready."

"None of them said a word about the police," observed James; "I don't think that they were
aware that we expected them."

"Then, depend on it, when they find out that Richards and I are away from our posts, they will
return to punish us.  Basham will not say anything, however, till he thinks that they have
placed him in safety, and then, of course, he will tell them of our being here."

In consequence of Craven's very just apprehensions, the party set to work to fortify the hut
more completely, by putting stronger bars to the windows and doors, and by placing a stockade
outside at the weaker parts, so as to make it more difficult for any assailants to reach the roof.

These preparations were scarcely completed, when Green, who happened to be on the roof, cried out--

"There come the chaps again, and twice as many as before!"

This was serious news; for it was not likely that the ruffian band would have returned, unless
with the intention of destroying those who had offended them.  It is very probable that they
hoped to make it appear that the blacks, having set the wood on fire, had afterwards killed
them.  The whole party in the hut felt, therefore, that they must fight to the last extremity.
A line was drawn round the building, and it was agreed that if an enemy passed it they would
fire; but they would refrain as long as possible from shedding blood.  They had scarcely time
to barricade the door and windows before the outlaws appeared, mounting the hill from the river,
not as before, in single file, but scattered over the ground, so as to take advantage of the
shelter any inequalities might afford.  Some were disguised, but there were several blacks
who were in their usual unclothed state, and were evidently not masqueraders.  It might have
been difficult to identify even those, as their faces and bodies were bedaubed with pigments
in strange and hideous devices.

This time James took care not to show himself.  "Stand back, men!" he shouted in a loud voice.
"If any one advances across the line we have marked out, we must fire.  We do not wish to shed
blood, but the consequence be on your own heads.  Back, black men! you get killed."

The outlaws hesitated, and even the natives seemed to understand what was said.  Whereabouts
the magic line was drawn, at which some of them would be certain to lose their lives, they
could not tell.  Soldiers in battle will dare any danger, but villains engaged in a criminal
act are always cowards, unless driven to desperation.  Such was not the case at present.  A
white handkerchief was shown on a stick, and a voice cried out--

"We don't want to hurt you, Mr Gilpin, or your brother, or man, but there are two fellows there,
and we must have them; give them up to us, and we will go away."

"I ask you, would you give up people who had put confidence in you?" said James.

"We have nothing to say to that; give up the men, or we will burn down the hut and you in it,"
was the answer.

"Remember the warning I have given you," said James; "however, we will just talk the matter
over, and let you know what we decide."

"Be sharp about it, then," said the first speaker; "we did not come here to shilly-shally,
and we shall advance directly the time is up.  We give you five minutes to settle the matter."

"We must take ten; and recollect that our rifles will be kept ready for use," added James, firmly.

"I am afraid the fellows will put their threat into execution," said Craven.  "Now, you see,
our lives are of no use to any one, and so, when the ten minutes are up, tell them that we
will go with them, if they will take their departure quietly, and not injure you."

"On no account would we do so!" exclaimed the brothers in the same breath.  "I would not trust
them, even if we should be base enough to give you up."

"Noa, sur; I'd sooner cut out my tongue than give ye up to them arrant knaves!" exclaimed Green,
doubling his fist, and shaking it in the direction he supposed that the outlaws were collected.

The minutes passed slowly by.  They were doubtful whether the outlaws would begin the attack
at the end of the five minutes, or wait till the termination of the ten.  The dread of the
fatal line, however, seemed to keep them back.  The muzzles of the firearms were kept protruding
from the walls, and, as there were several pistols as well as rifles, they made a good display
of force, rather damping the courage of those who came expecting, probably, an easy victory.

The ten minutes came to an end, and fully another five had passed by, and the outlaws did not
advance.  It was very clear, therefore, that they had not intercepted Larry, nor were aware
that he had gone for the police.  How long it might be before they could arrive it was impossible
to say; perhaps when Larry reached their quarters the larger number had been sent in an opposite
direction, and considerable time might be lost. However, the importance of gaining as much
time as possible was very great; for though the little garrison did not despair of beating
off the enemy, they earnestly desired to avoid the bloodshed which must ensue if fighting once
began.

James therefore waited with a sad and beating heart to give the fatal order, should the outlaws
overstep the prescribed boundary.

"Well, what are you going to do?" shouted one of the men; "are you going to give up those fellows?"

"Who is it you are looking for?" asked James, glad of any means to spin out the time.

"Gentleman Jim and Sulking Sam," was the answer.  "Come, turn them out; you've got them."

"I know no men by those names," said James.

"The rogues are right enough, though.  I have the honour of being designated as `Gentleman
Jim,'" said Craven, with a smile.

"I say, what are the right names of the chaps?" asked one of the outlaws of a comrade.

"I never knowed 'em by any other," was the answer.

"Come, come, master, you hand them out, and be done with it!" cried several of the men together.

"Supposing they were with us, and that we were to deliver them into your hands, what would
you do with them?" asked James.

"Hang them up on the nearest tree, as we will you also, if you don't come to terms pretty quickly!"
shouted the first ruffian who had spoken.

"I won't help you to be guilty of so great a crime," said James; "think better of it, and go away."

"No more of this; time's up!" cried a loud voice.  "Charge, lads!"

The whole body sprang forward towards the hut.  The whites instantly began firing their muskets
or fowling-pieces, the blacks at the same moment casting their spears.

"Hurra!  Here come the police!  Look out for yourselves!" cried Sam Green, who had been keeping
watch at a hole near the roof, looking eastward.

The words, uttered before any one had time to reload, had a magic effect.  One of the outlaws,
springing on one side to ascertain whether the announcement was true, shouted out the fact
to his comrades.  Down the hill they rushed, as fast as their legs could carry them.  Their
bullets had either passed over the hut or had lodged in the thick planking which formed the
sides, without injuring any of those within. The sound of the shots, however, made the police
put spurs to their horses' sides, and they came galloping up as the last of the outlaws disappeared
across the river.  Their steeds were pretty well knocked up with their long and rapid journey,
but Lieutenant Graham, the officer in command, was most anxious to catch some of the men. 
"We will join you!" cried Craven, running out.  Their horses were found in a grassy nook to
the left.  Craven, with his friend Richards, and Arthur Gilpin, and ten of the police, led
by their officer, joined in the pursuit.  Before long they came in sight of the outlaws, scattered
far and wide over the country, each man endeavouring to make his escape by himself.  Most of
them had thrown away the boughs and the skins with which they had been covered.  Three men
kept closer together than did the rest.  Craven, who thought he recognised them by their figures
as stockmen belonging to the station, recommended that they should be followed.  The men soon
discovered that they especially were pursued.  When they saw that all chance of escape was
gone, they turned round and stood at bay; but as the troopers advanced with drawn sabres, they
threw down their arms and cried out for quarter.  Their lives were of course spared, but their
hands being lashed behind them, they were conducted back to the hut. Another man was caught,
but the rest were allowed to escape.  "We can always get any we require," observed one of the
police.  The prisoners were the men Craven supposed.  He himself was the chief cause of their
being taken.  Except that his dress was rough, as usual, his whole manner was changed as he
galloped across the field.  Graham looked at him more than once with astonishment.

They were all once more collected in the hut, doing justice to the fare Sam and Larry had provided.

"I am nearly certain that I know you!" said the police officer, addressing Craven.  "My name
is Graham, and yours is--"

"All right, old fellow!" cried Craven, jumping up and grasping his hand; "it is pleasant, indeed,
to meet a near relation out here.  I never heard of your coming."

"Nor did I know of your being here.  However, we will not lose sight of each other again,"
said the lieutenant.

As scarcely any of the stockmen or hut-keepers could be trusted, the Gilpins begged that some
of the police might remain, while they went round to drive in and concentrate the herds of
cattle and the flocks of sheep, now probably without keepers, and subject to the depredations
of the outlaws.  It was very hard work; but, with the help of Craven, a few of the better-disposed
men, who were found at their huts (having probably returned there after the ill-success of
their expedition), were selected, and the task was accomplished.  Fresh hands were sent for.
Craven was appointed overseer, with his friend under him.  Graham set off with his prisoners
for headquarters, Norfolk Island being, without doubt, their ultimate destination.  No tidings
could be gained of Basham.  He was probably hid away in the mountains, but it was not likely
that he would make any further attempts on the station.  The disorderly servants were dismissed,
fresh ones arrived, and for some time the affairs entrusted to the young settlers went on quietly
and prosperously.

CHAPTER FIVE.

The Gilpins found Craven a great addition to their social circle in their remote station. 
They, more than ever, required support and assistance, for depressing news began to reach them
from Sydney.  The financial affairs of the colony had for some time past been in an unsatisfactory
state.  Money for paying the men was often considerably in arrear; and stores and provisions
were sent up only in small quantities and of an inferior quality.  At length, a letter arrived
from the agent, directing them to send produce to Sydney, to meet certain heavy liabilities.
As wool was not forthcoming, they were to boil down both cattle and sheep, to dismiss a large
number of the men, and to practise the most rigid economy.  The requisite boilers and casks
for the tallow soon afterwards arrived.  It was most disagreeable and painful work.  Flock
after flock of sheep were driven in and slaughtered; the carcases were put into the cauldrons,
the fat was packed in the casks, and the hides roughly dried; while the meat, which might have
fed thousands of the starving poor in the old country, was allowed, of necessity, to rot uselessly
on the ground.  Theirs was no solitary instance of the consequence of want of capital to carry
on business, for such was the condition to which the greater number of squatters throughout
the colony were reduced.  Fortunately, tallow and hides were in demand, and realised high prices,
and thus many of the settlers were soon able to get out of their difficulties, though left
with sadly diminished flocks and herds.  The Gilpins and their overseer, Craven, spared no
exertion to save, as far as possible, the loss of property.  One day Arthur had gone in search
of some cattle, which had strayed among the range of mountains to the west.  After looking
for them in vain, he was returning, annoyed and out of spirits, when he observed a stream issuing
from the side of a hill, with the banks on either side encrusted with a glittering white substance.
He tasted it, and found it perfectly salt.  Collecting a pocketful, he returned home with his
spirits completely revived.  All the party were of opinion that it was a salt spring; that
others would be found in the neighbourhood; and that salt could be manufactured with which
the meat, which was now lost, might be preserved either for sale or for future consumption.
The next morning they eagerly set out for the spot.  They were not disappointed.  Other springs
were found.  By evaporation alone, a small supply could be procured; and with some simple apparatus
they hoped to produce as much as they would require.  A cauldron and some pans were sent up,
and after a few experiments they succeeded to their satisfaction; and they were able to send
into Sydney, with the next dray-load of tallow, a cask of salted hams and tongues.

About this time, they received a letter from their first friend in the colony, Mr Prentiss,
saying that the losses of his family had been so great, and that his father had so taken it
to heart, that he was completely prostrate, and not likely to survive.  He had, therefore,
himself come up to take the management of affairs, accompanied by his children.  He requested
James to come and pay him a visit without delay. Leaving Arthur and Craven in charge, he at
once set off.  He rode alone, though he would probably have to camp out one or two nights.
There were stations on the road, but they were at inconvenient distances; and unless compelled
by bad weather, he did not purpose stopping at them.  He had a gun as a protection; but he
had no fear of bushrangers.  They were now seldom heard of in the colony.  From wild beasts
to be dreaded by a traveller, Australia is, happily, free.  He was not likely to meet any blacks
inclined to be unfriendly. Occasionally the natives murdered hut-keepers and stockmen, but
in most instances they had been provoked to do so by ill-treatment.  With saddle-bags and holsters
well filled, a blanket, a tin kettle and pot, strapped to the saddle before him, he set forth
on his journey.  There is an elasticity in the atmosphere and a freedom from restraint which
makes travelling on horseback in Australia most delightful.  James Gilpin enjoyed it to the
full.  He also found it good to be alone occasionally, to commune with his heart; and this
journey gave him ample opportunity of being so.  The first day passed over pleasantly.  He
had arranged to spend the evening with an acquaintance on the road.  As his own shadow and
that of his steed were lengthened out on the grass, the smoke of his friend's hut, curling
up among the gum trees, appeared before him.  He called out as he rode up to the door, but
no voice answered; the distant sound, however, of tinkling sheep bells told him that the flock
of the station was being driven into a pen for the night, where the new-born lambs could be
better protected from the dingoes and hawks, their chief enemies, than if left on the open.
Unsaddling and turning his horse into a paddock near at hand, he entered the hut.  The kettle
was hissing on the fire, and the damper was baking under it. There were signs that the hut
was the residence of a gentleman (though all was in the rough), and evidently that of a bachelor.
Every spot on the walls was covered with shooting and fishing gear, sporting prints, and some
of a better description; and there was a book-case, with thoroughly used volumes, and coats
and hats hung up, and shelves loaded with all sorts of articles, and chests below, and casks,
one with flour ready open; the corners also were crowded.  There was a bed-chamber boarded
off for the owner, a refinement not very often indulged in, and a bunk at one end of the general
room, for the hut-keeper.  The cheery voice of the proprietor addressing his dogs announced
his return.  He warmly greeted his neighbour (their abodes were only forty miles apart); and
tea, damper, cold beef, and pork were speedily on the table.

The two settlers were merry and contented, in spite of misfortunes. Johnstone had also been
compelled to boil down.

"Now is the time for a fellow with five or six hundred pounds to lay the foundation of a fortune,"
he observed; "both cattle and sheep can be bought at a mere nominal price.  I must sell or
boil down still more of mine; but I see my way clearly out of my difficulties, and keep up
my spirits."

The hint was not lost upon James.  He had been unwilling to take any of his employers' cattle,
lest it might throw him open to suspicion; but he now resolved to offer to purchase some, and,
at all events, to take all that Mr Johnstone might wish to sell.  Local subjects were of course
discussed.

"By-the-by," observed Mr Johnstone, "we were surprised some days ago at seeing a white man
lurking about here, dressed in skins and rags.  The people thought he must be mad; for whenever
they approached him, he ran off howling into the bush.  I ordered some food to be placed for
him at a spot where we could watch him.  He saw us, and would not approach; but after watching
for some time we went away, and he then must have darted out from his concealment and carried
off the food, for when we returned it was gone.  From that day he disappeared, and whether
he has been drowned in some river or water-hole, or has been starved in the bush, I cannot say."

James Gilpin started at an early hour the next morning, intending to make a long day's journey,
and to camp out, as he must in that case do. His horse, a peculiarly fine and strong one, bore
him well through the early part of the day.  In the afternoon he entered a forest, extending
on either side to a considerable distance.  The track through it was less defined than usual,
still, by constant reference to his compass, when he had any doubts, he had no fear about making
a mistake.

He had ridden on for some distance, when he observed that the sky was overcast, and the wind
began to moan among the trees.  Suddenly, with a spring which would have thrown a worse rider,
his horse started at a vivid flash of lightning which darted from the sky, struck a huge tree
near him, tearing off a large limb, and then ran hissing along the ground.  A crash of thunder,
such as he had really heard, followed, and he found it impossible to prevent his affrighted
steed from setting off at full gallop among the trees.  It was with the greatest difficulty
that he could guide the animal, so as to save his legs from being dashed against the trunks
and his head against the branches.  Crash succeeded crash in rapid succession, and at times
so vivid was the lightning that the forest seemed one blaze of fire.  In vain he searched for
an open space where he might, at all events, be free from the danger of being crushed by falling
branches.  Now he thought he saw an opening on one side, now on the other; but each time he
was disappointed.  He discovered, however, that he had got out of the track, and when he began
to consider in which direction he should go, he was under the somewhat painful feeling that
he had lost his way.  He put his hand in his pocket to examine his compass; it was not there.
Again and again he searched for it; nowhere was it to be found.  It had undoubtedly been jerked
out of his pocket during some of the violent springs his steed had made when frightened by
the lightning.  He had not the remotest hope of finding it on the ground, and would therefore
not waste time in looking for it. Just as he had made this disagreeable discovery, the fury
of the storm abated, and he was in hopes that it was about to cease altogether.  He rode forward,
he believed, towards the east.  If he could get out of the wood he might still reach a station
before dark, considerably short of the distance he hoped to have made good that day.  On he
went, his horse starting and trembling, not having yet recovered from its fright.  The rain
was falling in torrents, and he was already wet through--no uncommon occurrence, however, for
a squatter, who is in the saddle many hours every day of the year.  Down it came, harder than
ever.  Another vivid flash, followed by a terrific clap of thunder, made his horse again start
forward.  He galloped on till an open space was reached; here, at all events, he might be secure
from falling branches, though not from the lightning, which was darting in every direction.

He had almost lost hope of getting out of the wood that night.  Wet as he was, he must camp
out on the bare ground.  He was searching for a spot where he might dismount and tether his
horse, when again the animal started; this time, however, it was not at a flash of lightning.
James looked round, when, about a dozen yards from him, he saw, as if endeavouring to conceal
himself behind the gnarled stem of an aged gum tree of gigantic proportions, the very figure
Johnstone had described to him the previous evening.  At first he thought that his imagination
must have deceived him; the light was uncertain, and his eyes had been dazzled by the lightning.
Still, he could not be mistaken: there was the human face, the glaring eyeballs, the matted
hair and beard, and the dress of skins and rags.  The figure moved its arms and made threatening
gestures at him.  "I must know whether this is reality or imagination," he said to himself,
again urging on his horse towards the tree under which the seeming figure stood.  As he did
so, the threatening gestures became more vehement, and, as he continued to advance, a loud,
unearthly shriek rang through the forest, and the unhappy maniac, for such without doubt he
was, fled away into its depths, his cries echoing amidst the trees till they grew faint in
the distance.  This incident did not contribute to make the prospect of camping out in that
wild spot pleasant.  Still, James Gilpin had no choice, and his mind was too well trained to
allow him to be made anxious by unnecessary apprehensions. The only thing he dreaded was the
possibility of the maniac returning, and, perhaps, should he drop asleep, committing some violence
on him. Both rain and lightning had ceased, and having tethered his horse in a grassy spot,
where the animal might find food, he bethought him of the possibility of lighting a fire. 
Under the trees there was no lack of fuel, and with the last remnant of daylight he collected
enough to serve him till the morning.  Under the lee side of the trees, also, he scraped together
enough dry leaves and small twigs and bark to raise a blaze and dry the wet wood.  He looked
up very frequently, as was natural, to ascertain that the maniac was not near him.  With flint,
steel, and gunpowder he quickly raised a blaze; his kettle was boiling, his meat toasting,
and his damper warming up, while his blanket and clothes were drying; and had it not been for
the spectre he had seen, he would have been well content with his lot,--not that he much feared
what the poor creature could do to him, but it was the feeling that at any moment he might
rush out on him which was so painful.  By the look of the sky he saw that the weather was still
unsettled, and the state of the atmosphere, judging by his sensations, told him that there
might still be more thunder and lightning.  He consequently considered it imprudent to seek
for greater shelter under the trees.  His clothes and blankets were now tolerably dry, and
having shifted the tether of his horse, that the animal might have fresh food, he wrapped himself
up, with his feet to the fire and his head on his saddle-bags to seek that rest of which he
stood so much in need.

He, of course, intended to keep his eyes open, and turned in the direction where the poor maniac
had disappeared.  As might, however, have been expected, he closed them and fell fast asleep.
Weariness made him sleep, but anxiety prevented him from sleeping soundly.  He was dreaming,
it seemed, all the time; and his dreams were painful and confused in the extreme.  The strange
figure of the maniac was constantly before him, while his unearthly cries resounded in his
ears. His chief idea was that he was engaged in a desperate struggle to get out of some fearful
difficulty--now swimming in a roaring torrent, now climbing a precipice with savage animals
raging below, now flying for his life across a boundless plain; the maniac was mocking him
on the banks of the stream, or present among the wild beasts, or following him with a troop
of savages across the plain.  A loud noise sounded in his ear.  It was a peal of thunder. 
The storm was again raging with redoubled fury.  He started up to secure his horse, lest the
frightened animal should break loose and escape into the depths of the forest.  He must have
slept long, for a few glowing ashes only remained of his fire, which the rain would soon quench,
unless a supply of fresh wood were added.  He felt for some he had placed in readiness, and
threw it on the ashes.  As he did so, a vivid flash of lightning lit up the forest opening,
and by its light he saw, with a gleaming axe uplifted in his hand, the wretched maniac stealthily
approaching him.  He sprang to his feet, seizing his rifle, when again all was darkness.

"Stand back, whoever you are, or I must fire!" he shouted, at the same time leaping on one
side, away from the spot where he had been lying.

There was the sound of feet, as if a person was springing over the ground, a shriek, and the
crash of a weapon descending.  Yes, he was certain it had struck his saddle-bags.  The next
instant, the wood igniting on the fire, a flame burst forth, revealing the figure of the maniac
retreating across the glade in the direction of the old tree, where he had at first appeared.
He must have just reached it when another flash of lightning came down in a zigzag course from
the very clouds overhead.  It struck the huge tree, which was riven into several portions,
and its knotted limbs scattered around.  The thunder at the same moment crashed and rattled
with almost terrific sound.  He seized the tether rope of his horse, as the animal, having
torn the pin from the ground, was about to dash off through the forest.  The poor creature
stood as his hand stroked its head, but trembled violently.  He brought it up to the fire,
looking round as he did so for his late assailant, but the maniac was nowhere to be seen. 
He had the greatest difficulty in keeping his horse quiet; for the storm continued raging as
before, the rain came down in torrents, the wind howled and whistled, and the lightning flashed;
the thunder roared and rattled, and the rending of boughs, and the crashing of falling trees
was heard on every side, warning him of the danger of attempting to pass among them.  As may
be supposed, he did not again lie down: having saddled his horse and thrown his blanket over
his shoulders, he employed the time in quieting the animal, throwing wood on his fire, and
keeping a vigilant watch for the approach of the maniac.  The most weary night must have an
end.  The storm ceased completely; the dawn came at last.  He looked around.  The sight which
most attracted his attention was the blackened stump of that huge tree which had stood there
the previous evening--the monarch of the forest glade.  He approached it.  Under one of the
limbs lay a human form--it was the maniac's body; life was extinct.  He examined the features.
There could be no mistake; though haggard by starvation and exposure, and distorted by his
violent death, he recognised them as those of the former overseer of Warragong, the outlaw
Basham.  A small black mark on one side of his head showed that he had been struck by the electric
fluid, and that his death must have been instantaneous, and must have immediately followed
the attempt on his life.  To bury the body of the wretched man was impossible.  All he could
do was to drag the heavier boughs of the trees torn off by the storm over it and leave it thus
entombed, and then to escape from the scene.  The rising sun showed him the direction he should
pursue, and in half an hour he was out of the wood, and had regained the track with which he
was acquainted.  He reached a station in time for breakfast, when he narrated to the occupant
what had occurred, and learned from him that Basham had more than once been there asking for food.

A rest of a few hours restored James's strength; but instead of camping out as he had intended,
he was glad to take shelter that night in another squatter's hut.  It was thus that the traveller
in those days was able to traverse the province from one end to the other, with the certainty
of finding food and shelter, and a welcome at any hut where he might call.  He was most cordially
received at Prentiss Town, where he arrived late in the evening; but he went to a house of
mourning.  Old Mr Prentiss, under the belief that his losses were far greater than was the
case, and that the whole country was about to be ruined, had sunk broken-hearted into the grave.
He had trusted in riches, and they had failed him.  An apathetic indifference to everything
around him had seized his eldest son, who had the same belief in the ruin impending over the
colony.

Notwithstanding this, there was sunlight in the dwelling: there could not fail to be so, James
thought, where Fanny and Emily Prentiss were to be found.  They received him as an old and
valued friend, and expressed their sorrow that his brother could not have accompanied him.
He naturally expected that they would complain of the dulness of the life they must now lead
in the country, and regret all the gaieties and amusements they had left behind in Sydney;
but, on the contrary, they seemed much pleased at having escaped from its unsatisfactory frivolities.
Everything in the country delighted them, and they had no fear of no having ample occupation.
They proposed to study the natural history of the district--the trees and flowers, the birds
and insects, and the wild animals, of which there were not a few; then the farm would of itself
afford ample occupation, along with the improvements in the house, into which they were about
to move, on another part of the estate, where a garden was also to be formed.  And there were
also several settlers with wives and grown-up daughters, who lived somewhat far off, to be
sure; but the young ladies were good horse-women, and thought little of a ride of thirty miles
or so.  There were likewise numerous families of the lower orders, who had no means of obtaining
religious or secular instruction.  Among these they circulated books and tracts, and would
often stop and read the Word of God to those who were unable to read themselves.  Thus every
moment of each day was fully occupied.  James Gilpin could not fail to admire the manner in
which his young hostesses spent their time, or to discover how many objects of interest they
had in common.  Even under ordinary circumstances he would have been interested in them.  As
it was, the interest he felt increased the longer he remained in their society.  He was of
much use to Mr Henry Prentiss in arranging the affairs connected with the property; and at
length, with new hopes and aspirations, he returned to Warragong. The arrangements for the
purchase of the cattle and sheep were soon complete.  The brothers did not even now lay out
all their capital, but allowed a portion to remain in the bank to meet any unexpected demands.
They had from the first been allowed a percentage on the increase of the stock under their
charge; but this, owing to the mismanagement of the persons employed, and the depredations
of Basham and his associates, had hitherto been small.  The boiling-down process at length
being no longer necessary, and the management in every department being greatly improved, the
increase was so much more rapid than at first, that they found themselves, a few years after
landing in Australia, the owners of very considerable flocks and herds, while no men in the
district were more respected.  Their visits to Prentiss Town became more and more frequent;
sometimes one brother went, sometimes the other--as they were unwilling to leave the station
together--and they both met with a reception which made them wish to return.  The Prentiss
Town property was now divided, and the house inhabited by Mr Henry Prentiss was considerably
nearer to them than that of his elder brother.  They also had secured some runs lower down
the Warragong river; and having fixed on a site for a house in that direction, somewhat similar,
but far more picturesque than the spot where the old hut stood, they built a hut which they
could inhabit till their new residence could be erected, leaving Craven in charge of that up
the stream.  This change enabled them to leave their own abode early in the morning, and to
reach that of Mr Prentiss before sunset.  There was the house of a new settler about half-way,
and several huts where refreshment could be obtained, so that their visits became still more
frequent and expected.  Even in the bush gossip is not impossible, and it became pretty generally
reported that the two Mr Gilpins were about to marry the two daughters of Mr Henry Prentiss.

CHAPTER SIX.

The Gilpins had not attained to the prosperous condition they enjoyed without persevering toil
and constant exertion both of mind and body. Some stirring incidents had occurred; but, at
the same time months passed by in a comparatively monotonous manner.  Every day they were in
the saddle, sometimes from morning till night; but however delightful that style of life may
be--and that it has its attractions to most men there can be no doubt--men of educated minds
must at times feel an almost insupportable weariness, and earnestly long for a change.  There
can be but little social intercourse; some suffer materially from the want of public worship
and religious instruction, and all must feel its absence.  Still, those who are fitted for
a life in the bush, and have led it for any length of time, quit it generally with regret,
and return to it with satisfaction.

Never had the Gilpins been more busy.  Their house was nearly finished. It was rather large
for two bachelors, to be sure; but their ideas must have expanded of late.  They had much more
assistance than formerly rendered by Craven, their most efficient and active overseer, and
his assistant, Larry.  No one would have recognised the dispirited, almost broken-hearted hut-keeper
in the fine, active, intelligent man he had now become.  Gentlemanly even in his poverty, he
had always been.  He now looked more fit to set a squadron in order, and lead them against
the foe, than to keep sheep; yet to superintend the keeping of sheep he was well content. 
He had greatly enlarged and improved the old hut, having converted it indeed into a comfortable
house, with a flower-garden in front and one for vegetables in the rear.

One of the greatest matters of interest to the bushman, who has loved relations in the old
country, is the arrival of the post.  Often with trembling, always with eager, hands the packets
are opened; sometimes they give satisfaction, and afford subjects for pleasant conversation
for many a day; but at others, and too often, they bring news to grieve the hearts of their
readers.  Such had been the case with the Gilpins, some time back, when a letter with a broad
black border arrived, and told them of the death of a father they had so much reason to reverence
and love.  Several changes had taken place in their family circle. Their eldest brother had
married; and their two sisters seemed doubtful, when they last heard from home, whether or
not they should continue to reside with him.

The two brothers were sitting together in their nicely furnished dining-room.  The dark wainscoting
and the proportions of the apartment reminded them of the one they had loved so well in their
far-off home in the old country.  A dray had just arrived from the west, and Green made his
appearance with the letter-bag in hand.  Eagerly the contents were glanced over.

"Arthur, they are coming--both the dear girls, Jane and Susan--and Willie as an escort!" exclaimed
James, in a tone of great satisfaction.

"Oh! it will be delightful.  How pleased Fanny and Emily will be!" cried Arthur.

Indeed, no event could by possibility have caused the brothers more true pleasure; and, as
may be supposed, it formed the subject for conversation for the remainder of the evening and
for many evenings afterwards.  Of course it was necessary for James to ride over to Prentiss
Town to announce the event.

"As soon after they arrive as it can be arranged," was the reply made by Fanny to a question
put to her during his visit.  It seemed highly satisfactory, and was received with strong marks
of gratitude.

When James returned home, Arthur was not happy till he could set off to Prentiss Town.  He
must have put a question to Emily, not unlike that which James put to Fanny.

"Perhaps the same day that my sister is," was her reply.

Not long after, James set off for Sydney.  Arthur would gladly have gone also, but what with
their own flocks and herds, and the numerous ones over which they had charge, it was, they
thought, scarcely fair to Craven to leave him so long alone.  Of late, too, there had been
reports of wonderful discoveries of gold--nuggets to rival those of California; and some of
the shepherds and stockmen had already gone off to the region where the gold was reported to
have been found, and it was feared that others might follow.  James had not been in Sydney
since his first arrival in the country.  The whole city was in a ferment.  There was no doubt
of the truth of the reports of the discovery of gold, not only in one, but in several directions.
Nuggets of all sizes and heaps of gold-dust had already been brought in.  The gold fever had
commenced, and men of all ages, ranks, and professions were fitting themselves out with knapsacks,
spades, washers, and other apparatus for the gold-fields.  People were surprised that James
took matters so calmly. "I prefer that others should dig for me--an occupation for which I
never had a fancy, except for an hour or two in my garden in a morning," he answered.  "If
people rush out of the colony, as it is expected they will, the price of stock will rise very
greatly, and I shall have ample fortune for all my wishes."  It did rise, far higher than he
expected, and he was not disappointed.  His heart throbbed with anxiety as he went down to
the harbour to visit the ship on board which his sisters had taken their passage.  He singled
them out among a large number of passengers, though they did not recognise the strongly built,
bearded, and well-browned man as their brother, who had left them a fair, slight youth a few
years before.  News of the gold discoveries had reached England some time before the ship sailed,
and a great number of her passengers were intended gold-diggers--a mixed and ill-matched assemblage,
all inspired, however, with the one ruling passion, an eager to grow rich suddenly.  There
were young men--still mere lads--who had time before them to make themselves independent by
steady industry; and old men who, it might be supposed, had little else to do than to prepare
for another world.  There were nominal representatives of all religious faiths, but drawn together
to worship one god--Mammon, yet not as brethren, for each seemed eager to supplant the other.
The Miss Gilpins told their brother that the universal subject of conversation during the voyage
was gold, gold-digging, gold-washing, gold-scraping.

"Like the old man in the `Pilgrim's Progress' with his muck-rake, always scraping with downcast
looks, never gazing upwards," remarked James. "Ah! it is sad work; and yet, when a person gets
down in the world, and feels the want of the wealth he once possessed, it must be a severe
trial to him to prevent his mind from continually dwelling on the means by which he may regain it."

The greater number of the passengers were eager to set off immediately for the diggings; and
every vehicle to be found was secured at a high price, many giving promises of breaking down
before half the journey was performed.  Many talked of trudging it on foot; and of these, several
of them never reached their destination, having either lost their way and died from fatigue
and starvation in the bush, or being drowned when crossing some river, by being carried down
by the current.  The lions of Sydney were soon visited; and James, with his two sisters and
young brother, set off in high spirits for Warragong.  He had a lightly-built covered waggon,
with strong springs--the best style of vehicle for travelling in the bush.  The journey was
performed, if not rapidly, yet with great ease and comfort; and there were so many objects
of interest, all new to the strangers--the birds, beasts, reptiles, and scenery, the very look
of the people, and the characters they met--that no one was weary.  As may be supposed, they
called at Prentiss Town on their way, and, of course, spent a few days there; and, naturally,
Arthur arrived to escort them home.  The daughters of the English farmer had been more practically
brought up than the Australian young ladies, educated in a school in Sydney.  They could teach
them much connected with the dairy and numerous household duties, of which they had never heard.
Not that the Miss Gilpins were, in the slightest degree, less refined or less educated than
their new friends.  Of course, the visit was to be returned; there was some joking, however,
on that subject, which a stranger might not very clearly have understood.  On the road, the
party were met by Craven, well mounted, and dressed in the most approved fashion.  He came,
as in duty bound, to escort his friends' sisters to their new abode.

"And is this the hut you spoke of, dear brothers?" exclaimed the sisters, in the same voice.
"What a delightful house!  And this room, the very model of the dear old parlour.  We are sure
you intended it."

And Jane and Susan kissed their brothers, who were more than amply repaid by the happiness
they felt for the years of toil they had endured, and all the exertions they had made to get
the house ready. They had an idea that those sisters would not remain long under their roof,
sorry though they would be to lose them; that is to say, not if their bachelor neighbours had
a particle of good taste or judgment. Willie was delighted with everything.  His great ambition
was to become a first-rate stockman.  He was rather young to begin active life; but he had
made good use of his time at school, and he promised, when he left England, that he would not
give up reading and study.  The Gilpins had found the time pass quickly before the arrival
of their sisters, they now found it pass still more quickly; and it was only by managing it
with the greatest care that they could accomplish what they had to do. The Miss Gilpins entered
warmly into all Fanny's and Emily's plans-- which had, indeed, now become their brothers'--for
giving religious instruction to the surrounding population, which had of late years considerably
increased.  Though many of the men went off to the diggings, the women remained, hoping to
see them return, loaded with wealth.  Not a hut nor a residence of any sort remained unvisited
by these six active young missionaries, who left tracts or books wherever they went.  They
procured some Bibles from Sydney, and many a cottage, where the Word of God had never been
heard, was supplied by them.  They had great reason to believe that a blessing attended their
efforts. They had often made application in Sydney for an appointed minister of the Gospel.
One at length came, but he had a wide circuit, so that he could not come to any spot within
the Sunday morning's journey more than six or eight times in the year.  He went his rounds,
preaching on weekdays, from station to station, and holding a service every evening where he
rested.  Such is the only human agency by which spiritual life can be maintained in the wide-scattered
sheep and stock stations in Australia, and it behoves all those connected with that magnificent
land, who love the Lord Jesus Christ, to aid in sending missionaries of the Gospel through
its length and breadth.  There are many who have scarcely ever heard the glad tidings of salvation;
many have passed away, sunk almost in heathen darkness.  At length, a regular place of worship
was built, to the satisfaction of many, which satisfaction was by no means decreased by an
interesting event which took place there shortly afterwards, namely, the marriages of Jane
and Arthur Gilpin.  It would be difficult to find a more united, contented, and happy family
than that now dwelling at Warragong, and certainly, if steady, persevering, industry and uprightness
of conduct should be rewarded, the Gilpins richly deserved their success.  Sam Green, too,
had followed his young master's example, and had taken to himself as a wife the eldest daughter
of his old acquaintance, Sykes, the former coachman of Mr Henry Prentiss, who had followed
his master into the country, and settled near him.  Larry Killock won the heart of another
daughter; but, although Mr Sykes had himself come out at the Government expense, he objected
to the alliance, because Larry was not yet entirely a free man. Larry was, however, able to
prove that his crime was having joined some popular outbreak; and being at length freed completely
from bondage, his wishes were no longer opposed, and he settled down near the friends to whom
he had, with good reason, become so warmly attached.

CHAPTER SEVEN.

Some time had passed since the events just mentioned.  It was winter, not Christmas, however,
but the period which in England is considered the warmest and sunniest in the year.  Frost
and snow are not looked for, but the wind blows from the cold south, and rain comes down in
plentiful showers, filling the water-holes, and turning the sluggish streams into roaring torrents.

One evening, as Arthur and Willie were riding homewards from a distant station, their course
not far from the Warragong river, a cry reached their ears.

"It is some one shouting for help!" exclaimed Arthur.  "From what direction does it come?  Listen!"

"From up the stream!" cried Willie, spurring on his horse.

"Stay! there's a man in the river," said Arthur; "he is floating down. We may pass him if we
don't take care."

They rode directly down to the bank of the now rapid river.  Every stockman rides with a rope
attached to his saddle.  They looked out anxiously as they now rode up the stream.  Again the
cry was heard, but fainter though near; and through the thickening gloom of evening a man was
seen clinging to a log, which was borne swiftly down the current. He had lost all power of
guiding it, and from the way his head hung down, it was evident that his strength was exhausted,
and that he must soon drop off and sink.  To leap from their horses and to secure them to a
tree was the work of a moment.

"Here, hold one end, Willie!  I think I can reach him!" cried Arthur, binding the two ropes
together, and fastening one end round his own waist.

Throwing off his coat, and without waiting for any expostulation from Willie, he plunged into
the stream, and swam boldly out towards the drowning man.  The whirling eddies of the torrent
bore the log along, now carrying it towards one side of the river, now towards the other. This
much increased the difficulty of reaching it.  The man clinging to it had still sufficient
consciousness to be aware of the effort made to save him, but had no strength to help himself.
Arthur had swum out very nearly to the extent of which the rope would allow, and yet he feared
that he should not reach the man.  He doubted whether he should be strong enough to return
to the shore without the aid of the rope.

"Stretch out your arms, Willie; give me all the rope you can, but don't fall in.  In mercy
take care!" he shouted.

Willie stood on the very edge of the bank uncoiling the whole of the rope, and keeping only
the end in his hands.  He dreaded lest, his feet slipping, he should be dragged in himself;
and though he did not fear for himself, he knew that, if he was dragged in, Arthur would in
all probability be lost.  He found that he could not stand still either, but had to move down
the stream, as his brother was swept on by the current. "If it is difficult to hold him now,
what will it be when he grasps the drowning man?" he thought.  He would have shouted for help
had he believed that any one was near to afford it.  Arthur, meantime, saw the drowning man
approaching.  An eddy seemed to be carrying him off towards the opposite bank.  Should he venture
to swim across without the rope? Had he a right to run so great a risk of losing his life,
and bring grief and sorrow to the heart of his young wife?  He prayed for strength and aid.
He was about to loose himself from the rope, when again the log was whirled near him.  The
moment for the greatest exertion had arrived.  He sprang forward.  His right hand grasped the
drowning man, but the log on which he floated escaped from his hold, and was borne onwards
by the current.  As he caught the man, the spring he made and the additional weight almost
overbalanced Willie, who was on the point of falling into the water, when he found himself
close to a young tree, of the willow tribe, bending over the stream.  He grasped it with his
left hand, hauling with all his might till he drew in a sufficient length of the rope to pass
it round the stem.  His dread was lest his brother should sink before he could reach the shore.
He then feared that the man for whom Arthur had risked so much might be torn from his grasp
before he could get him in.  The fact of the willow growing there showed that there was a permanent
water-hole at the spot, and that, therefore, the depth must be considerable.  He dragged in
the rope slowly, for Arthur seemed scarcely able to support his burden.  "Keep-- keep up, brother!"
he cried out, considering whether he should not make the rope fast and jump in to help him.
Just then he discovered that the current itself was doing what he wished; scarcely had he secured
the rope than Arthur was swept close up to the bank.  He sprang on to help him.  The bank,
happily, shelved, and together they dragged the nearly drowned man to the shore. If Swift could hint
a doubt of Marlborough' s courage, what wonder that a nameless scribe of our day should question
the honor of Clyde? And we talk here, please to observe, of weaknesses rather than crimes. Censure
and praise are alike to him--" The music warbling to the deafened
ear, The incense wasted on the funeral bier," the pompous eulogy pronounced
over the gravestone, or the lie that slander spits on it. Dear sir,
may yours and mine be found, at the right time, of the proper size and in
the right place.

You know, neighbor, there are not only false teeth in this world,
but false tongues: and some make up a bust and an appearance of strength
with padding, cotton, and what not? while another kind of artist tries
to take you in by wearing under his waistcoat, and perpetually thumping,
an immense sham heart.

If,
my good sir, or madam, you have read it and credited it, don' t you own to a little feeling of shame
and sorrow, now that the trumpery little mystery is cleared?

Ah, friend! may our coin, battered, and clipped, and defaced though
it be, be proved to be Sterling Silver on the day of the Great Assay!

Honest Bottom' s grotesque head and form are indicated as reposing
by the side of the consummate glory.

Before the Duke of York' s column, and between the" Athenaeum" and" United Service"( writes
a famous contemporary of the duke' s)," that it is hard to pronounce
on either side without the suspicion of flattery or detraction. Sometimes
this orator is made to" move on" by brutal policemen.

Brutal courage most men have. What has he on his breast, under his greatcoat?
I would have taken post under the statue of Fame, say, where she stands
distributing wreaths to the three Crimean Guardsmen. We went into the
owner' s-- an artist' s-- studio. What the codicil is, my dear brethren,
it is not our business to inquire. The Field- Marshal, wishing to
make a further provision for a friend, informed his lawyer what he desired
to do.

I' ve seen literary fellows at Clubs writing their rubbishing articles;
I have no doubt they take away reams of paper. My friends, I know the wine-
merchant, and, for the sake of the legatee, hope heartily that the
stock is large.

These parvenus, sir, betray their origin-- betray their origin. If you
don' t, I fear you are but little familiar with the habits of preachers, and
are but lax hearers of sermons." It is dated at Chatham, my good
man," says Brown. What is that roll which his lordship carries? In
India and China he marches always unconquered; or at the head of
his dauntless Highland brigade he treads the Crimean snow; or he rides
from conquest to conquest in India once more; succoring his countrymen
in the hour of their utmost need; smiting down the scared mutiny,
and trampling out the embers of rebellion; at the head of an heroic
army, a consummate chief.

THE LAST SKETCH. Around us are magnificent halls and palaces
frequented by such a multitude of men as not even the Roman Forum
assembled together.

Such paper is not sold
at Chatham, where the last codicil to his lordship' s will the' Athenaeum
Club' mark." Extending down the street palace after palace rises magnificent,
and under their lofty roofs warriors and lawyers, merchants and nobles,
scholars and seamen, the wealthy, the poor, the busy, the idle assemble.

They say our words, once out of our lips, go travelling in omne oevum,
reverberating for ever and ever.

Now among so many talkers, consider how many false reports must fly about: in such multitudes
imagine how many disappointed men there must be; how many chatterboxes; how many feeble and credulous(
whereof I mark some specimens in my congregation); how many mean, rancorous, prone to believe ill of
their betters, eager to find fault; and then, my brethren, fancy
how the words of my text must have been read and received in Pall
Mall!

Is it his Star of India? The inference is obvious. No; it is a roll of foolscap conveyed from
the Club. Yonder are the Martium and the Palladium. Fairy elves, no doubt,
were to have been grouped around their mistress in laughing clusters.

One fancies the hall- porter conscious of the old lord' s iniquity, and holding down his head as
the Marshal passes the door. Spain and Portugal and France-- all the lands
which supplied his store-- as hardy and obedient subaltern, as resolute
captain, as colonel daring but prudent-- he has visited the fields of all.
Is it his Marshal' s baton gloriously won?

A man cannot get Athenaeum paper except at the" Athenaeum." At the end of last month, had I been a
Pall Mall preacher, I would have liked to send a whip round to all the
Clubs in St. James' s, and convoke the few members remaining in London
to hear a discourse sub Dio on a text from the Observer newspaper.(
I perceive several of the congregation looking most uncomfortable.

Some day our spirits may be permitted to walk in galleries of fancies
more wondrous and beautiful than any achieved works which at present
we see, and our minds to behold and delight in masterpieces which
poets' and artists' minds have fathered and conceived only.

Let us imagine how in the hall of one or other of these Clubs this strange anecdote will be discussed.
A man if he is in Rochester says he is in Rochester. I will not give one shilling. What a story is
that of that family of poets in their solitude yonder on the gloomy
northern moors!"

Habit of looting contracted in India, you know; ain' t so easy to
get over, you know," says Snigger.

What was she to have been-- that fair Titania-- when perfected by the patient skill of the poet,
who in imagination saw the sweet innocent figure, and with tender courtesy and caresses, as it were,
posed and shaped and traced the fair form?

If your rival prospers have you ever felt a twinge of anger? Suppose he wrote his paper at the Club?"
interposes Jones. We might contrast the vault where the warrior'
s remains lie shrouded and coffined, with that in which his worldly
provision of wine is stowed away." A man if he is in London says he is in
London." Notorious screw," says Sneer. I don' t say he is not brave.
The gift may be a lakh of rupees, or it may be a house and its contents--
furniture, plate, and wine- cellar. They crib thoughts: why shouldn' t they
crib stationery?" A man who wallows in wealth and takes paper away from
his Club!" because he wears a silk gown, and yours is still stuff:
because he has been called in to perform the operation though you
lived close by: because his pictures have been bought and yours returned
home unsold: because he fills his church, and you are preaching to
empty pews?

Well, well, we have all our weaknesses," sighs Robinson. Some day will
they assume form in some yet undeveloped light? If the Has Been,
why not the Might Have Been? In the third column of the fifth page towards
the bottom of the page. Why, they will be raising statues to men who
take Club spoons next! And about ourselves? I don' t say he was not a
good officer: a man with such experience MUST have been a good officer
unless he was a born fool."

And they want to get up a testimonial to this man' s memory-- a statue
or something!" cries Jawkins.

One of your literary vagabonds who is capable of stabbing a reputation, who is capable of
telling any monstrous falsehood to support his party, is surely capable of stealing a ream of
paper." This man happens to forget that he is using the Club paper; and he happens to be found out:
many men DON' T happen to be found out. Sometimes, on a Sunday, he points to a white head
or two visible in the windows of the Clubs to the right and left of him, and volunteers a
statement that those quiet and elderly Sabbath- breakers will very soon be called from this world to
another, where their lot will by no means be so comfortable as that which the wrongdoer enjoy
here, in their arm- chairs by their snug fires.

Oh, no!" But to think of this man loaded with honors-- though of a low origin-- so lost to self- respect
as actually to take away the' Athenaeum' paper!

Am I wrong, dear brethren, in supposing that you expect a preacher
to say a seasonable word on death here?

I said to
my wife this very morning,' Mrs. Jawkins,' I said,' there is talk
of a testimonial to this man."

The poor old fellow' s avarice has long been known."

Next to the Palladium is the elegant Viatorium, which Barry gracefully
stole from Rome.

No, by
George, I have not. I suppose he was so poor he couldn is dated. I have no idea of raising statues
to fellows who take away Club paper.

Lord Clyde finding the paper perfectly satisfactory, signed it and
sent it back: and hence we have the story of" the codicil bearing
the signature of Clyde, F. M., and written, strange to say, upon paper
bearing' t afford to buy a quire of paper.

They were dwelling in the artist' s mind no doubt, and would have been developed by that patient,
faithful, admirable genius: but the busy brain stopped working, the skilful hand fell lifeless,
the loving, honest heart ceased to beat. If our bad unspoken thoughts are registered against us,
and are written in the awful account, will not the good thoughts unspoken, the love and tenderness,
the pity, beauty, charity, which pass through the breast, and cause the heart to throb with
silent good, find a remembrance too? It conveys a benefaction to a faithful and attached friend of the
good Field- Marshal. The lawyer, a member of the"

Athenaeum Club," there wrote the draft of such a codicil as he would advise, and sent the paper by the
post to Lord Clyde at Chatham. By its side is the massive Reformatorium: and the-- the Ultratorium rears
its granite columns beyond. Here I have been imagining a dialogue between a half- dozen gossips
such as congregate round a Club fireplace of an afternoon.

Here the poet called up into pictorial presence, and informed with life, grace, beauty, infinite friendly
mirth and wondrous naturalness of expression, the people of whom his dear books told him the
stories,-- his Shakspeare, his Cervantes, his Moliere, his Le Sage. A few weeks more, and this
lovely offspring of the poet' s conception would have been complete-- to charm the world with its beautiful
mirth. And what has this to do with half- crowns, good or bad? To" the new inhabitant of light," passed
away and out of reach of our censure, misrepresentation, scandal,
dulness, malice, a silly falsehood matters nothing.

Some of us have more serious things to hide than a yellow cheek behind a raddle of rouge, or
a white poll under a wig of jetty curls. Faithfully though this brave old chief did his duty, honest
and upright though his life was, glorious his renown-- you see he could write at Chatham on London
paper; you see men can be found to point out how" strange" his behavior
was.

Hadn' t fourpence in the world.

My good people, do you by chance know any man or woman who has formed unjust conclusions regarding his
neighbor? The implements of the painter' s art were there. Whom you hate because he is successful, and
you are not: because he is rich, and you are poor: because he dines with great men who don' t invite
you:" Perhaps it isn' t true. If his wife' s carriage passes you and Mrs. Tomkins, who are
in a cab, don' t you feel that those people are giving themselves absurd airs of importance? Of the
multitude that have read her books, who has not known and deplored the tragedy of her family,
her own most sad and untimely fate?

The light which had shone upon so many, many hours of patient and
cheerful toil, poured through the northern window upon print and
bust, lay figure and sketch, and upon the easel before which the good,
the gentle, the beloved Leslie labored.

If you are acquainted with the history of those times, you have read how Cadogan had his feuds and
hatreds too, as Tickell' s patron had his, as Cadogan' s great chief had his. Those lines quoted in a foregoing
page are from some noble verses written by one of Mr. Addison' s men, Mr. Tickell, on the death
of Cadogan, who was amongst the most prominent" of Marlborough' s captains and Eugenio' s friends."
The proofs and manuscript of this little sermon have just come from the printer' s, as I look at
the writing, I perceive, not without a smile, that one or two of the pages bear," strange to
say," the mark of a Club of which I have the honor to be a member."

The Duke of Marlborough' s character has been so variously drawn"

Clubs, I have seen more than once, on the esplanade, a preacher holding forth to a little congregation
of badauds and street- boys, whom he entertains with a discourse on the crimes of a rapacious
aristocracy, or warns of the imminent peril of their own souls. Who that has known her books has
not admired the artist' s noble English, the burning love of truth,
the bravery, the simplicity, the indignation at wrong, the eager sympathy,
the pious love and reverence, the passionate honor, so to speak, of
the woman?

Those maligners who deny him personal valor, seem not to consider that this accusation is charged
at a venture, since the person of a general is too seldom exposed,
and that fear which is said sometimes to have disconcerted him before
action might probably be more for his army than himself."

It is to this part of the text, my brethren, that I propose to address myself particularly, and if the remarks
I make are offensive to any of you, you know the doors of our meeting- house are open, and you can
walk out when you will. Not many days since I went to visit a house where in former years I
had received many a friendly welcome.( The crossing- sweeper does not obstruct the path, and I suppose
is away at his on Sundays.) And, when the congregation was pretty quiet, I would have begun:--
In the Observer of the 27th September, 1863, in the fifth page and the fourth column, it is thus written:--"
The codicil appended to the will of the late Lord Clyde, executed
at Chatham, and bearing the signature of Clyde, F. M., is written,
strange to say, on a sheet of paper BEARING THE' ATHENAEUM CLUB' MARK."

Prints, pictures, and sketches hung on the walls as I had last seen and remembered them. Have you ever found
yourself willing, nay, eager to believe evil of some man whom you hate? And if you ever felt
envy towards another, and if your heart has ever been black towards your brother, if you have
been peevish at his success, pleased to hear his merit depreciated,
and eager to believe all that is said in his disfavor-- my good sir, as you yourself
contritely own that you are unjust, jealous, uncharitable, so, you
may be sure, some men are uncharitable, jealous, and unjust regarding
YOU.

In this room the busy brain had devised, and the skilful hand executed, I know not how many of the
noble works which have delighted the world with their beauty and charming humor. I wonder how many people
besides-- whether any chance reader of this very page has read and
believed this story about the good old lord?

At nine o' clock at night, Mrs. Gaskell tells, after evening prayers, when their guardian and relative
had gone to bed, the three poetesses-- the three maidens, Charlotte, and Emily, and Anne-- Charlotte
being the" motherly friend and guardian to the other two"--" began, like
restless wild animals, to pace up and down their parlor,' making out'
their wonderful stories, talking over plans and projects, and thoughts
of what their future life."

Gracious, and pure, and bright, the sweet smiling image glimmers on the canvas. And so the painful
belief is forced upon us, that a Peer, a Field- Marshal, wealthy Mall agorae, where we of London
daily assemble. If our words, why not our thoughts? You' ll find it up stairs. No; it is a bundle of
envelopes, bearing the head of Minerva, some sealing- wax, and a half- score of pens. With
a feeling much akin to that with which I looked upon the friend' s-- the admirable artist' s--
unfinished work, I can fancy many readers turning to the, respected, illustrious, could pocket
paper at his Club, and carry it away with him to the country." STRANGE TO SAY, ON CLUB PAPER." The
darkling forest would have grown around them, with the stars glittering
from the midsummer sky: the flowers at the queen' s feet, and the
boughs and foliage about her, would have been peopled with gambolling
sprites and fays.

Not one penny of MY money shall they have!'""

When officers dined with him in India," remarks Solemn," it was notorious that the spoons were all
of a different pattern." Is there record kept anywhere of fancies conceived, beautiful, unborn?"
Seen that article, Thompson, in the Observer about Lord Clyde and the Club paper? And now,
if you please, we will tell the real story which has furnished this scandal to a newspaper, this
tattle to Club gossips and loungers. Have the country papers copied the anecdote, and our" own correspondents"
made their remarks on it? May there not be some sphere unknown to us where it may have an existence? Into
was to be the halls built down this little street and its neighborhood the principal men of
all London come to hear or impart the news; and the affairs of the state or of private individuals,
the quarrels of empires or of authors, the movements of the court, or the splendid vagaries of
fashion, the intrigues of statesmen or of persons of another sex yet more wily, the last news of
battles in the great occidental continents, nay, the latest betting for the horse- races, or the advent
of a dancer at the theatre-- all that men do is discussed in these Pall last pages which were
traced by Charlotte Bronte' s hand. If he lives with great people, are you not sure he is a sneak? Which
of her readers has not become her friend? I shall say nothing of his military accomplishments,
which the opposite reports of his friends and enemies among the soldiers have rendered problematical."
Suppose he wishes to imitate the Duke of Marlborough," says Simper. There was his last work on
the easel-- a beautiful fresh smiling shape of Titania, such as his sweet guileless fancy imagined
the Midsummer Night' s queen to be.
  We got back
to San Francisco, though not without great hazard of losing our gold and our lives, and got
on board a ship bound across the Pacific to this country. The ship, however, being caught in
a gale off this coast, drove on shore, when half the crew and passengers lost their lives--my
partner among them--while I only saved my life and the clothes on my back.  I had learned by
this time not to be surprised at any misfortune which might overtake me.  I was far better
off than in California, for I was among countrymen, I begged my way up to the diggings, or
rather I had not to beg it, for I was passed along from station to station.  I was much better
off, too, at the diggings than I had been in California, for I was now one of the ruling faction;
and, though things were bad enough in some respects, people were generally civilised and humane,
compared to gold-diggers I had met on the other side of the globe.  My luck, however, was much
the same.  All I could do was to keep body and soul together, till at last I had to come to
the conclusion that I was not cut out for a gold-digger.  On my way up to the diggings, I had
rested at a station owned by an old gentleman, who seemed to take an interest in me.  At all
events, as I was going away, he promised to receive me when I got tired of gold-digging, if
I would come back to him, and to put me in the way of making my fortune.  Utterly disgusted
with my ill-success as gold-digger, I bethought myself of him, and was on my way to his abode,
when, on attempting to cross your river, I was carried off my feet, and should have become
food for fish or water-rats had it not been for your courage, Arthur and Willie; and I can
say, with sincerity, that you deserve great credit for it.  As to thanking you, I do not fancy
that thanks from such a wretched vagabond as I am are worth anything, and so I'll say nothing
about that."

"We are too glad that we have succeeded in saving your life, old friend, to care about thanks,"
said Arthur.  "And now you are here, we hope that you will stay and try if you cannot follow
our occupation.  It is the one that succeeds best in Australia in the long run, depend upon it."

Mark Withers said that he would think about the matter; but the next morning he declared his
intention of proceeding to the farm of the old gentleman, a Mr Elton, who had invited him to
his house before he went up to the diggings.  "The fact is," observed Mark, "I have an idea
that he intended to leave me his property, and that would not be an unpleasant way of making
a fortune, you'll allow."

"It would be a way of getting one, certainly," observed James; "though I doubt if your expectations
will be realised; and I think that you would enjoy it far more if you make it yourself by honest
industry."

"Every man to his taste," said Mark, with a careless laugh; "if I fail in my expectations,
I can but try on plodding industry at last, you know, and little harm will be done."

"It is difficult to stop a rolling stone when it has gained an impetus downhill," said James;
"remember that, Mark.  However, I can only say that my brothers and I shall be glad to welcome
you back, should you find yourself mistaken in your hopes, and to find some employment for
you which will put you in the way of becoming independent in the end."

In so great a hurry was Mark to assure himself that he should obtain the expected fortune from
Mr Elton, that he insisted on setting forth on his journey the next day.  He did not object,
however, to borrow a horse and a few pounds from his old friends.  This he did with the air
of a man conferring rather than receiving a favour.  When Craven, who arrived soon afterwards,
heard of this latter circumstance, he predicted that the face of Mr Mark Withers would not
be again seen at Warragong, unless he might have the assurance to return and borrow more.

Charles Craven had become a very constant visitor of late at Warragong. By his intelligence,
activity, and knowledge of mankind, he had contributed greatly to the prosperity of the Gilpins
own property, as well as to that committed to their charge.  They had obtained permission to
make over a considerable portion of the latter to his management, so that he had now a comfortable,
if not a handsome, income.  There seemed to be no doubt that he admired Miss Gilpin, though
he had not proposed to her.  Perhaps he considered that she was indifferent to him, or regarded
him merely as a valued friend of her brothers.

Nothing had been heard of Mark Withers since his departure.  One evening a horseman was seen
approaching the house, dressed in rough bush fashion; and soon afterwards, into the room where
the ladies were seated, walked Mark himself.  He had assumed a careless independent swagger,
peculiarly distasteful to those into whose society he had introduced himself.

"Your brothers were right!" he exclaimed, throwing himself into a chair. "Old Elton was a humbug.
He has cheated me abominably.  Got me to labour for him, and then laughed in my face when I
told him why I had done so; telling me that, as I worked for love, I required no wages; and
that, as I was not worth my salt, he should give me none.  However, here I am, not much the
worse for the adventure, with a few months experience of bush life, and ready to become your
brothers' chief stockman, or overseer, or anything they like to put me to, not derogatory to
the character of a gentleman." 

The summer held to her a glass whose rosy effervescence, whose fleeting foam, whose tingling spirit
exhaled a subtile madness of character, but her beauty, another thing under all this largess;
one remembered the very Persian joy,-- a draught whose lees were
despair.

She queened it over demesnes of sprite- like revelry; the life they led was sylvan; at their, all
Middle,- Age mythology rose and wafted them back fêtes the sun assisted. So nearly had she been destitute
of emotion hitherto that she had scarcely a right to be classed with humanity fierce lights and strong glooms,
dipped, hissed, and quenched below, and, a fantastic flotilla, they passed on into the broad brilliance
of a rising did to the entire disturbance of Capua' s slumbers," in
the rapture of finally, on one of the last August,- nights, we had
passed, Asmodeus own- like, over the roofs, looking down, we should
have seen three things; now, young, she would win that right.

So she woke from her icy trance; but, alas! what had wakened her?

Not only her rose, in looking at her, and thought of gardens amid
whose clouds of rich perfume the nightingales sang all night long;
her manner, too, became drama of an era over- ripe; they sang only
from an old authority s nectary.

The summer was passing." I think it best he should come and take his wife off my hands they must be exotics
who did not wither d in such hot- house air." What are you doing, dear?"
They performed in the daylight stray clarified bits from Fletcher or Molière,
horror as the" Red Death" If, Why, what for?-- what can you be writing
to him for?"" How startled I was!" she exclaimed. It was rapidly up becoming
unnatural." Writing to Laudersdale," he said, in reply. First, that
Mrs. Laudersdale slept like any innocent dreamer, and, to wrapped
with white moonlight, in her long and flowing outline, in her imperceptible
breath, resembling some perfect statue that we fancy to be instinct
with suspended life.

Next, that Mr. Raleigh- scenes of Watteau became vivid and real; every evening when not sleep at
all, but assimilate himself, Venice was made possible, when shadowy barks slipped dusk of madrigals;."
It was a life too fine for every day, fare too rich for health; their very reading was fragmentary,--
now an, emasculated Boccaccio, then a curdling phantasm of Poe' s, and after some such scenic
strangely gracious, a sweetness lingered after her presence, delicate
and fine as the drop of honey in some flower' tides, freighted with
song and laughter, and snatches of guitar- tinkling; and when some
sudden torch, that for an instant had summoned with its red fire all.

Helen Heath dashed off the Pesther Waltzes." reproducing as he could
the turbulent passion and joy of souls larger than his own.

And, lastly, that Mrs. McLean woke with visions of burglars before her eyes,
to find her pillow deserted and her husband sitting a writing- table.

Every day the garden moon into the obscurity.
  While attempting
to spring on one side, the unfortunate man's foot slipped, and before he could recover himself,
he was transfixed by the animal's horns.  The bull then, lifting up his head, bore his victim
as if in triumph round and round the pound.  In vain Withers struggled to release himself,
and shrieked for help.  James and Arthur and Willie, followed by several men, leaped into the
pound, regardless of the risk they ran of being set on by other animals.

"Oh! horrible!  Save him! save him!" simultaneously cried the Miss Gilpins, who had ridden up.

At that moment Craven, who heard their cry, rode up, and, seeing the state of affairs, ordered
the gate to be opened, and dashed in.  The next instant he had thrown the lasso over the bull's
head, clearing the man, and while he drew it tight round the creature's neck, the rest of the
party came up and were able to get theirs round his legs and to bring him to the ground.  Mark
breathed, but had received some severe injuries.  Whether they might prove fatal it was difficult
to say.

"Oh!  Mr Craven, we are indeed grateful for the way in which you released that poor man from
his horrible position," said Jane, in a sweet, yet unfaltering voice, as, on riding out of
the pound, Craven bowed stiffly to the sisters.

He looked at Jane's countenance earnestly, and then rode up alongside her horse.

"I have some slight surgical skill, perhaps I may be of service," he said quietly.

Withers was being carried at this time towards the house.

"Oh! try what you can do.  My brothers will be most thankful.  It would be dreadful were he
to die in his present, as I fear, unprepared state," she replied.

Craven drew a deep breath.  Susan echoed her sister's words.  They were approaching the house.

Craven's skill was not very great, but he was gentle and patient, and contributed to relieve
the sufferings of the injured man.  Many hours passed before the surgeon, who had been sent
for, arrived.  In the mean time, Craven was as assiduous in his attention as he could have
been had Mark been his dearest friend.  The surgeon would not pronounce a decided opinion as
to the case.  Though the injuries were severe, if the man's constitution was good he might
recover, but if not, they would probably prove fatal.  James, as a true friend, felt that it
was his duty to tell Mark the truth.

The injured man groaned and muttered, "Yes, it was good; but I have done my best to destroy it."

James spoke to him earnestly, and urged him, without delay, to make his peace with God, through
the only means open to sinful man--the blood of His dear Son.

Mark listened, but a veil seemed on his understanding.  "The fact is, old fellow, I haven't
thought about the matter, and I would rather not now," he replied.  "I don't intend to die
just yet, if I can help it; and who knows but what I may take up your notions of things, and
become as good as you are?  You mean me well, I know you do; but just let me alone."

But a faithful man is faithful in all things.  Arthur persevered, and at length a perceptible
change took place in Mark's manner when he spoke of sacred matters.  The fear of death in him
became great.  More than once Arthur heard him muttering to himself those awful words: HEREAFTER!
ETERNITY!  At length the surgeon began to speak more favourably of Mark's condition.  He thought
he would recover, he said, but would be a cripple to the end of his life.  It was a heavy blow
to Mark, and caused him many bitter tears, although it was evident that it was a wonderful
relief to his mind to be told that God had given him time for repentance, and not cut him off
in the midst of his sins.  Arthur was by his bedside continually, and it filled him with deep
joy to be able to believe that Mark was a changed man.  He spoke penitently, sorrowfully, of
the past, but cheerfully and hopefully of the future.  One day, as he was lying on a sofa,
to which he had been lifted from his bed, he said to Arthur, "I remember long ago, in the old
country, Arthur, when you and I were discussing what was the object in life most worthy of
our aim, I thought wealth, for the sake of spending it on pleasure--on myself.  I could not
make out exactly what your aim was; but you and your brothers seem to me to have got all you
can desire to make life pleasant, while I have lost all I had, and gained nothing."

"I held, I believe, that all we should aim at is to do our duty, and that openings for the
employment of our energies will always be found for us," answered Arthur.  "We certainly have
found this to be true in our own case."

"Yes, that you have," said Mark, without, however, any bitterness in his tone. It was evident that the
Hendrik. It would be his dearest duty hereafter to deserve it. And he gave his address:" Lawrence
Osgood,
Fourteenth" necessary preparations" by for Madeline' s appearance in this
old rôle could not be made in St, New York."

The Gilpins had truly been fruitful fig trees.  All they undertook prospered.

Far and wide they were a blessing to their neighbours, for as such they looked upon all those--rich
or poor--whom they could reach.

Through their efforts and instrumentality the glad tidings of great joy were carried to all
around them, many of whom would never otherwise have heard the Gospel sound. 

address:" Lawrence Osgood duty hereafter to deserve it flames. And he gave his Madeline' s appearance
in this new rôle could not
be, Fourteenth St., New York." It was evident that the" necessary preparations"
for It would be his dearest made in Hendrik.

Craven declared that it was impossible any one could reap more benefit from his friends than
he had.  It seemed probable, indeed, that, but for them, he would have remained a hut-keeper
to the end of his days.  As it was, he became not merely an upright man in the eye of his fellow-men,
but also a sincere Christian.  He married Jane Gilpin, and with this event we close our narrative.

THE END.

