The Earl Marshal, however, agreed with the Constable that the fight could not proceed until
the inequality should be removed; and a general apprehension was excited in the assembled multitude
that, after all the preparation, there would be no battle.

Of all present there were only two perhaps who rejoiced at the prospect of the combat being
adjourned, and these were the captain of the Clan Quhele and the tender hearted King Robert.
Meanwhile the two chiefs, each attended by a special friend and adviser, met in the midst of
the lists, having, to assist them in determining what was to be done, the Earl Marshal, the
Lord High Constable, the Earl of Crawford, and Sir Patrick Charteris. The chief of the Clan
Chattan declared himself willing and desirous of fighting upon the spot, without regard to
the disparity of numbers.

"That," said Torquil of the Oak, "Clan Quhele will never consent to. You can never win honour
from us with the sword, and you seek but a subterfuge, that you may say when you are defeated,
as you know you will be, that it was for want of the number of your band fully counted out.
But I make a proposal: Ferquhard Day was the youngest of your band, Eachin MacIan is the youngest
of ours; we will set him aside in place of the man who has fled from the combat."

"A most unjust and unequal proposal," exclaimed Toshach Beg, the second, as he might be termed,
of MacGillie Chattanach. "The life of the chief is to the clan the breath of our nostrils,
nor will we ever consent that our chief shall be exposed to dangers which the captain of Clan
Quhele does not share."

Torquil saw with deep anxiety that his plan was about to fail when the objection was made to
Hector's being withdrawn from the battle, and he was meditating how to support his proposal,
when Eachin himself interfered. His timidity, it must be observed, was not of that sordid and
selfish nature which induces those who are infected by it calmly to submit to dishonour rather
than risk danger. On the contrary, he was morally brave, though constitutionally timid, and
the shame of avoiding the combat became at the moment more powerful than the fear of facing it.

"I will not hear," he said, "of a scheme which will leave my sword sheathed during this day's
glorious combat. If I am young in arms, there are enough of brave men around me whom I may
imitate if I cannot equal."

He spoke these words in a spirit which imposed on Torquil, and perhaps on the young chief himself.

"Now, God bless his noble heart!" said the foster father to himself. "I was sure the foul spell
would be broken through, and that the tardy spirit which besieged him would fly at the sound
of the pipe and the first flutter of the brattach!"

"Hear me, Lord Marshal," said the Constable. "The hour of combat may not be much longer postponed,
for the day approaches to high noon. Let the chief of Clan Chattan take the half hour which
remains, to find, if he can, a substitute for this deserter; if he cannot, let them fight as
they stand."

"Content I am," said the Marshal, "though, as none of his own clan are nearer than fifty miles,
I see not how MacGillis Chattanach is to find an auxiliary."

"That is his business," said the High Constable; "but, if he offers a high reward, there are
enough of stout yeomen surrounding the lists, who will be glad enough to stretch their limbs
in such a game as is expected. I myself, did my quality and charge permit, would blythely take
a turn of work amongst these wild fellows, and think it fame won."

They communicated their decision to the Highlanders, and the chief of the Clan Chattan replied:
"You have judged unpartially and nobly, my lords, and I deem myself obliged to follow your
direction. So make proclamation, heralds, that, if any one will take his share with Clan Chattan
of the honours and chances of this day, he shall have present payment of a gold crown, and
liberty to fight to the death in my ranks."

"You are something chary of your treasure, chief," said the Earl Marshal: "a gold crown is
poor payment for such a campaign as is before you."

"If there be any man willing to fight for honour," replied MacGillis Chattanach, "the price
will be enough; and I want not the service of a fellow who draws his sword for gold alone."

The heralds had made their progress, moving half way round the lists, stopping from time to
time to make proclamation as they had been directed, without the least apparent disposition
on the part of any one to accept of the proffered enlistment. Some sneered at the poverty of
the Highlanders, who set so mean a price upon such a desperate service. Others affected resentment,
that they should esteem the blood of citizens so lightly. On the old Birmingham Canal there are
two, one being 2,200 yards long and the other 1,010 yards. On the London and Birmingham Railway
(now London and North Western) the Watford tunnel is 1,830 yards long, the Kisley tunnel 2,423
yards, and Primrose Hill 1,250 yards.

On the Great Western line the longest is the Box tunnel, 3,123 yards
in length.

The deepest tunnel in England pierces the hills between Great Malvern and Herefordshire, being 600ft.
from the rails to the surface; it is 1,560 yards in length. The longest tunnels in the country run
under the range of hills between Marsden in Yorkshire and Diggle
in Lancashire, two being for railway and one canal use.

One of the former is 5,434 yards, and the other (Stanedge, on the L. & N.W.) 5,435 yards long,
while the canal tunnel is 5,451 yards.

~Turnpike Gates.~--At one time there were gates or bars on nearly
every road out of the town.

Even at the bottom of Worcester Street there was a bar across the road in 1818. There was once a
gate at the junction of Hang'sman Lane (our Great Hampton Row) and Constitution Hill, which, baing
shifted further on, to about the spot where Green and Cadbury's Works
now are, remained till 1839.

The gate in Deritend was removed in August, 1828; the one at Five
Ways July 5, 1841; those at Small Heath, at Sparkbrook, in the Moseley
Road, and in the Hagley Road were all "free'd" in 1851, and the sites
of the toll houses sold in 1853.

In the "good old coaching days" the turnpike tolls paid on a coach running daily from here to London
amounted to £1,428 per year.

~Union Passage~, at first but a field path out of the yard of the
Crown Tavern to the Cherry Orchard, afterwards a narrow entry as
far as Crooked Lane, with a house only at each end, was opened up
and widened in 1823 by Mr. Jones, who built the Pantechnetheca.

Near the Ball Street end was the Old Bear Yard, the premises of a dealer in dogs, rabbits,
pigeons, and other pets, who kept a big brown bear, which was taken
out whenever the Black Country boys wanted a bear-baiting.

The game was put a stop to in 1835, but the "cage" was there in 1841, about which time the
Passage became built up on both sides throughout.

~Vaughton's Hole.~--An unfortunate soldier fell into a deep clay pit here,
in July, 1857, and was drowned; and about a month after (August 6)
a horse and cart, laden with street sweepings, was backed too near
the edge, over-turned, and sank to the bottom of sixty feet deep of
water.

The place was named after a very old local family who owned considerable property in the neighbourhood
of Gooch Street, &c., though the descendants are known as Houghtons.

~Vauxhall.~--In an old book descriptive of a tour through England, in 1766, it is mentioned that
near Birmingham there "is a seat belonging to Sir Listen Holte, Bart, but now let out for a
public house (opened June 4, 1758), where are gardens, &c., with an organ and other music, in imitation
of Vauxhall, by which name it goes in the neighbourhood." The old place, having been purchased
by the Victoria Land Society, was closed by a farewell dinner and
ball, September, 16, 1850, the first stroke of the axe to the trees
being given at the finish of the ball, 6 a.m. next morning.

Confident at feeling himself in his well proved armour, Henry shook himself as if to settle
the steel shirt around him, and, unsheathing the two handed sword, made it flourish over his
head, cutting the air through which it whistled in the form of the figure eight with an ease
and sleight of hand that proved how powerfully and skilfully he could wield the ponderous weapon.
The champions were now ordered to march in their turns around the lists, crossing so as to
avoid meeting each other, and making obeisance as they passed the Golden Arbour where the King
was seated.

While this course was performing, most of the spectators were again curiously comparing the
stature, limbs, and sinews of the two parties, and endeavouring to form a conjecture an to
the probable issue of the combat. The feud of a hundred years, with all its acts of aggression
and retaliation, was concentrated in the bosom of each combatant. Their countenances seemed
fiercely writhen into the wildest expression of pride, hate, and a desperate purpose of fighting
to the very last.

The spectators murmured a joyful applause, in high wrought expectation of the bloody game.
Wagers were offered and accepted both on the general issue of the conflict and on the feats
of particular champions. The clear, frank, and elated look of Henry Smith rendered him a general
favourite among the spectators, and odds, to use the modern expression, were taken that he
would kill three of his opponents before he himself fell.

Scarcely was the smith equipped for the combat, when the commands of the chiefs ordered the
champions into their places; and at the same moment Henry heard the voice of Simon Glover issuing
from the crowd, who were now silent with expectation, and calling on him: "Harry Smith--Harry
Smith, what madness hath possessed thee?"

"Ay, he wishes to save his hopeful son in law that is, or is to be, from the smith's handling,"
was Henry's first thought; his second was to turn and speak with him; and his third, that he
could on no pretext desert the band which he had joined, or even seem desirous to delay the
fight, consistently with honour.

He turned himself, therefore, to the business of the hour. Both parties were disposed by the
respective chiefs in three lines, each containing ten men. They were arranged with such intervals
between each individual as offered him scope to wield his sword, the blade of which was five
feet long, not including the handle. The second and third lines were to come up as reserves,
in case the first experienced disaster. On the right of the array of Clan Quhele, the chief,
Eachin MacIan, placed himself in the second line betwixt two of his foster brothers. Four of
them occupied the right of the first line, whilst the father and two others protected the rear
of the beloved chieftain. Torquil, in particular, kept close behind, for the purpose of covering
him. Thus Eachin stood in the centre of nine of the strongest men of his band, having four
especial defenders in front, one on each hand, and three in his rear.

The line of the Clan Chattan was arranged in precisely the same order, only that the chief
occupied the centre of the middle rank, instead of being on the extreme right. This induced
Henry Smith, who saw in the opposing bands only one enemy, and that was the unhappy Eachin,
to propose placing himself on the left of the front rank of the Clan Chattan. But the leader
disapproved of this arrangement; and having reminded Henry that he owed him obedience, as having
taken wages at his hand, he commanded him to occupy the space in the third line immediately
behind himself--a post of honour, certainly, which Henry could not decline, though he accepted
of it with reluctance.

When the clans were thus drawn up opposed to each other, they intimated their feudal animosity
and their eagerness to engage by a wild scream, which, uttered by the Clan Quhele, was answered
and echoed back by the Clan Chattan, the whole at the same time shaking their swords and menacing
each other, as if they meant to conquer the imagination of their opponents ere they mingled
in the actual strife.

At this trying moment, Torquil, who had never feared for himself, was agitated with alarm on
the part of his dault, yet consoled by observing that he kept a determined posture, and that
the few words which he spoke to his clan were delivered boldly, and well calculated to animate
them to combat, as expressing his resolution to partake their fate in death or victory. But
there was no time for further observation. The trumpets of the King sounded a charge, the bagpipes
blew up their screaming and maddening notes, and the combatants, starting forward in regular
order, and increasing their pace till they came to a smart run, met together in the centre
of the ground, as a furious land torrent encounters an advancing tide. 

After much chastisement he habitually dropped ill, and lay some time
in mortal danger.

"When I was seven years vintage my dad and my mother were then dwelling apart--my kinsfolk very resolute,
for some cause or other, to give over drubbing me, though perchance a feel of the whip might then
have finished me no harm. But ill-fortune was ever hovering round me; she let my tribulation take a distinct
form, but she did not eliminate it. My dad, having chartered a dwelling, took me and my mother and
my auntie to reside with him, and made me habitually escort him in his rounds about the city.
On this account I, being taken at this tender age with my feeble body from a life of unconditional
rest and put to hard and unchanging work, was grabbed at the starting of my eighth year with dysentery
and high warmth, an complaint which was at that time outbreak in
our city.

Moreover I had consumed
by stealth a huge amount of tart grapes. But after I had been travelled to by the physicians,
Bernabo della Croce and Angelo Gyra, there appeared to be some wish
of my recovery, albeit both my parents, and my auntie as well, had
currently bewept me as one dead.

"At this time of the year my dad, who was at heart a man of piety,
was minded to invoke the divine aid of San Girolamo (commending me
to the care of the Saint in his prayers) other than believe to the
employed of that well renowned essence which, as he was wont to affirm
in an open way, was certainly in attendance upon him.

The cause of this change in his remedy of me I not ever nurtured to inquire. It was throughout the time
of my recovery from this sickness, that the French commemorated their triumph
after beating the Venetians on the banks of the Adda, which scene I was permitted
to observer from my window.[16] After this my dad set free me of the task
of going with him on his rounds.

But the wrath of Juno was not yet exhausted; for, before I had completely retrieved my wellbeing,
I dropped down-stairs (we were then dwelling in the Via dei Maini),
with a mallet in my hand, and by this misfortune I injure the left
edge of my forehead, hurting the skeletal part and initating a blemish
which continues to this day.

Before I had retrieved from this accident I was seated on the threshold
of the dwelling when a pebble, about as long and as very broad as a
nut, dropped down from the peak of a high dwelling next doorway and
hurt my head just where my hair increased very heavily on the left
side.

 His sword was bloody, his bearing bold
and warlike; and he smiled when old Torquil, folding him in his arms, loaded him with praises
and with blessings.

The two chiefs, after allowing their followers to breathe for the space of about ten minutes,
again drew up in their files, diminished by nearly one third of their original number. They
now chose their ground nearer to the river than that on which they had formerly encountered,
which was encumbered with the wounded and the slain. Some of the former were observed, from
time to time, to raise themselves to gain a glimpse of the field, and sink back, most of them
to die from the effusion of blood which poured from the terrific gashes inflicted by the claymore.

Harry Smith was easily distinguished by his Lowland habit, as well as his remaining on the
spot where they had first encountered, where he stood leaning on a sword beside a corpse, whose
bonneted head, carried to ten yards' distance from the body by the force of the blow which
had swept it off, exhibited the oak leaf, the appropriate ornament of the bodyguard of Eachin
MacIan. Since he slew this man, Henry had not struck a blow, but had contented himself with
warding off many that were dealt at himself, and some which were aimed at the chief. MacGillie
Chattanach became alarmed, when, having given the signal that his men should again draw together,
he observed that his powerful recruit remained at a distance from the ranks, and showed little
disposition to join them.

"What ails thee, man?" said the chief. "Can so strong a body have a mean and cowardly spirit?
Come, and make in to the combat."

"You as good as called me hireling but now," replied Henry. "If I am such," pointing to the
headless corpse, "I have done enough for my day's wage."

"He that serves me without counting his hours," replied the chief, "I reward him without reckoning
wages."

"Then," said the smith, "I fight as a volunteer, and in the post which best likes me."

"All that is at your own discretion," replied MacGillis Chattanach, who saw the prudence of
humouring an auxiliary of such promise.

"It is enough," said Henry; and, shouldering his heavy weapon, he joined the rest of the combatants
with alacrity, and placed himself opposite to the chief of the Clan Quhele.

It was then, for the first time, that Eachin showed some uncertainty. He had long looked up
to Henry as the best combatant which Perth and its neighbourhood could bring into the lists.
His hatred to him as a rival was mingled with recollection of the ease with which he had once,
though unarmed, foiled his own sudden and desperate attack; and when he beheld him with his
eyes fixed in his direction, the dripping sword in his hand, and obviously meditating an attack
on him individually, his courage fell, and he gave symptoms of wavering, which did not escape
his foster father.

It was lucky for Eachin that Torquil was incapable, from the formation of his own temper, and
that of those with whom he had lived, to conceive the idea of one of his own tribe, much less
of his chief and foster son, being deficient in animal courage. Could he have imagined this,
his grief and rage might have driven him to the fierce extremity of taking Eachin's life, to
save him from staining his honour. But his mind rejected the idea that his dault was a personal
coward, as something which was monstrous and unnatural. That he was under the influence of
enchantment was a solution which superstition had suggested, and he now anxiously, but in a
whisper, demanded of Hector: "Does the spell now darken thy spirit, Eachin?"

"Yes, wretch that I am," answered the unhappy youth; "and yonder stands the fell enchanter!"

"What!" exclaimed Torquil, "and you wear harness of his making? Norman, miserable boy, why
brought you that accursed mail?"

"If my arrow has flown astray, I can but shoot my life after it," answered Norman nan Ord.
"Stand firm, you shall see me break the spell."

"Yes, stand firm," said Torquil. "He may be a fell enchanter; but my own ear has heard, and
my own tongue has told, that Eachin shall leave the battle whole, free, and unwounded; let
us see the Saxon wizard who can gainsay that. He may be a strong man, but the fair forest of
the oak shall fall, stock and bough, ere he lay a finger on my dault. Ring around him, my sons;
bas air son Eachin!"

The sons of Torquil shouted back the words, which signify, "Death for Hector."

Encouraged by their devotion, Eachin renewed his spirit, and called boldly to the minstrels
of his clan, "Seid suas" that is, "Strike up."

The wild pibroch again sounded the onset; but the two parties approached each other more slowly
than at first, as men who knew and respected each other's valour. Henry Wynd, in his impatience
to begin the contest, advanced before the Clan Chattan and signed to Eachin to come on. Norman,
however, sprang forward to cover his foster brother, and there was a general, though momentary,
pause, as if both parties were willing to obtain an omen of the fate of the day from the event
of this duel. The Highlander advanced, with his large sword uplifted, as in act to strike;
but, just as he came within sword's length, he dropt the long and cumbrous weapon, leapt lightly
over the smith's sword, as he fetched a cut at him, drew his dagger, and, being thus within
Henry's guard, struck him with the weapon (his own gift) on the side of the throat, directing
the blow downwards into the chest, and calling aloud, at the same time, "You taught me the stab!" 

The pit in each is supported by a series of immense, stupid, square pilasters, such as architecture
has seldom witnessed out of Russia. Over these pilasters stands the first row of boxes supported
by beautifully wrought Corinthian columns, and above these rise three
additional rows.

The edifice is about 160 feet high and is the most colossal building in Warsaw. As it was designed
to treat the actors in military fashion and according to Russian style, the building was laid
out like barracks and about seven hundred persons live in it, most of them employed about the
theater.

The two stages were built by a German architect under the inspection of the General whose peremptory
suggestions were frequent and injurious. Both the great theater as it is called, which has four rows
of boxes, and can contain six thousand auditors, and the Varieté
theater which is very much smaller, are fitted out with all sorts
of apparatus that ever belonged to a stage.

In fact, new machinery has in many cases been invented for them and proved totally useless. The
Russian often hits upon queer notions when he tries to show his gifts.

On

one side a very large and strong bridge has been erected leading from
the street to the stage, to be used whenever the piece requires large
bodies of cavalry to make their appearance, and there are machines
that can convey persons with the swiftness of lightning down from
the sky above the stage, a distance of 56 feet.

A machine for which a ballet has been composed surpasses everything I ever saw in its size; it
serves to transport eighty persons together on a seeming cloud from
the roof to the foot-lights. I was astonished by it when I first beheld
it although I had seen the machines of the grand opera at Paris: the
second time I reflected that it alone cost 40,000 florins [$16,000].

Under the management of two Russian Generals, who have hitherto been
at the head of the establishment, a vast deal has in this way been
accomplished for mere external show.

The great Russian theatre of St. Petersburg has served for a model, and accordingly nothing has really
been improved except that part of the performance which is farthest
removed from genuine art, namely the ballet.

That fact is that out of Paris the ballet is nowhere so splendid as in the great theater at
Warsaw, not even at St. Petersburg, for the reason that the Russian is inferior to the Pole
in physical beauty and grace. Heretofore the corps of the St. Petersburg ballet has twice been composed
of Poles, but this arrangement has been abandoned as derogatory to the national honor. The sensual
attractions of the ballet render it the most important thing in the theater. A great school for
dancers has been established, where pupils may be found from three
to eighteen years old.

It is painful to see the little creatures, hardly weaned from their mothers' breasts--twisted
and tortured for the purposes of so doubtful an occupation as dancing. The school contains about two hundred
pupils, all of whom occasionally appear together on the boards, in the ballet of Charis and Flora,
for instance, when they receive a trifling compensation. For the rest the whole ballet corps are
bound to daily practice.
s' breasts--twisted
and tortured for the purposes of so doubtful an occupation as dancing. The school contains about two hundred
pupils, all of whom occasionally appear together on the boards, in the ballet of Charis and Flora,
for instance, when they receive a trifling compensation. For the rest the whole ballet corps are
bound to daily practice.
 They walked staggering,
as if in their sleep, through the carcasses of the slain, and gazed on them, as if again to
animate their hatred towards their surviving enemies by viewing the friends they had lost.

The multitude soon after beheld the survivors of the desperate conflict drawing together to
renew the exterminating feud on the banks of the river, as the spot least slippery with blood,
and less encumbered with the bodies of the slain.

"For God's sake--for the sake of the mercy which we daily pray for," said the kind hearted
old King to the Duke of Albany, "let this be ended! Wherefore should these wretched rags and
remnants of humanity be suffered to complete their butchery? Surely they will now be ruled,
and accept of peace on moderate terms?"

"Compose yourself, my liege," said his brother. "These men are the pest of the Lowlands. Both
chiefs are still living; if they go back unharmed, the whole day's work is cast away. Remember
your promise to the council, that you would not cry 'hold.'"

"You compel me to a great crime, Albany, both as a king, who should protect his subjects, and
as a Christian man, who respects the brother of his faith."

"You judge wrong, my lord," said the Duke: "these are not loving subjects, but disobedient
rebels, as my Lord of Crawford can bear witness; and they are still less Christian men, for
the prior of the Dominicans will vouch for me that they are more than half heathen."

The King sighed deeply. "You must work your pleasure, and are too wise for me to contend with.
I can but turn away and shut my eyes from the sights and sounds of a carnage which makes me
sicken. But well I know that God will punish me even for witnessing this waste of human life."

"Sound, trumpets," said Albany; "their wounds will stiffen if they dally longer."

While this was passing, Torquil was embracing and encouraging his young chief.

"Resist the witchcraft but a few minutes longer! Be of good cheer, you will come off without
either scar or scratch, wem or wound. Be of good cheer!"

"How can I be of good cheer," said Eachin, "while my brave kinsmen have one by one died at
my feet--died all for me, who could never deserve the least of their kindness?"

"And for what were they born, save to die for their chief?" said Torquil, composedly. "Why
lament that the arrow returns not to the quiver, providing it hit the mark? Cheer up yet. Here
are Tormot and I but little hurt, while the wildcats drag themselves through the plain as if
they were half throttled by the terriers. Yet one brave stand, and the day shall be your own,
though it may well be that you alone remain alive. Minstrels, sound the gathering."

The pipers on both sides blew their charge, and the combatants again mingled in battle, not
indeed with the same strength, but with unabated inveteracy. They were joined by those whose
duty it was to have remained neuter, but who now found themselves unable to do so. The two
old champions who bore the standards had gradually advanced from the extremity of the lists,
and now approached close to the immediate scene of action. When they beheld the carnage more
nearly, they were mutually impelled by the desire to revenge their brethren, or not to survive
them. They attacked each other furiously with the lances to which the standards were attached,
closed after exchanging several deadly thrusts, then grappled in close strife, still holding
their banners, until at length, in the eagerness of their conflict, they fell together into
the Tay, and were found drowned after the combat, closely locked in each other's arms. The
fury of battle, the frenzy of rage and despair, infected next the minstrels. The two pipers,
who, during the conflict, had done their utmost to keep up the spirits of their brethren, now
saw the dispute well nigh terminated for want of men to support it. They threw down their instruments,
rushed desperately upon each other with their daggers, and each being more intent on despatching
his opponent than in defending himself, the piper of Clan Quhele was almost instantly slain
and he of Clan Chattan mortally wounded. The last, nevertheless, again grasped his instrument,
and the pibroch of the clan yet poured its expiring notes over the Clan Chattan, while the
dying minstrel had breath to inspire it. The instrument which he used, or at least that part
of it called the chanter, is preserved in the family of a Highland chief to this day, and is
much honoured under the name of the federan dhu, or, "black chanter."'

Meanwhile, in the final charge, young Tormot, devoted, like his brethren, by his father Torquil
to the protection of his chief, had been mortally wounded by the unsparing sword of the smith.
The other two remaining of the Clan Quhele had also fallen, and Torquil, with his foster son
and the wounded Tormot, forced to retreat before eight or ten of the Clan Chattan, made a stand
on the bank of the river, while their enemies were making such exertions as their wounds would
permit to come up with them. Torquil had just reached the spot where he had resolved to make
the stand, when the young Tormot dropped and expired. His death drew from his father the first
and only sigh which he had breathed throughout the eventful day.

"My son Tormot!" he said, "my youngest and dearest! But if I save Hector, I save all. Now,
my darling dault, I have done for thee all that man may, excepting the last. Let me undo the
clasps of that ill omened armour, and do thou put on that of Tormot; it is light, and will
fit thee well. While you do so, I will rush on these crippled men, and make what play with
them I can. I trust I shall have but little to do, for they are following each other like disabled
steers. At least, darling of my soul, if I am unable to save thee, I can show thee how a man
should die."

While Torquil thus spoke, he unloosed the clasps of the young chief's hauberk, in the simple
belief that he could thus break the meshes which fear and necromancy had twined about his heart.

"My father--my father--my more than parent," said the unhappy Eachin, "stay with me! With you
by my side, I feel I can fight to the last."

"It is impossible," said Torquil. "I will stop them coming up, while you put on the hauberk.
God eternally bless thee, beloved of my soul!"

And then, brandishing his sword, Torquil of the Oak rushed forward with the same fatal war
cry which had so often sounded over that bloody field, "Bas air son Eachin!" The words rung
three times in a voice of thunder; and each time that he cried his war shout he struck down
one of the Clan Chattan as he met them successively straggling towards him.

