It's my opinion that every one I know has morals, though I wouldn't like to ask. I know I have.
But I'd rather teach them than practice them any day. "Give them to others"--that's my motto.
Then you never have any use for them when you're left without. Now, speaking of the caprices
of memory in general, and of mine in particular, it's strange to think of all the tricks this
little mental process plays on us. Here we're endowed with a faculty of mind that ought to
be more supremely serviceable to us than them all. And what happens? This memory of ours stores
up a perfect record of the most useless facts and anecdotes and experiences. And all the things
that we ought to know--that we need to know--that we'd profit by knowing--it casts aside with
the careless indifference of a girl refusing her true lover. It's terrible to think of this
phenomenon. I tremble in all my members when I consider all the really valuable things that
I've forgotten in seventy years--when I meditate upon the caprices of my memory.

There's a bird out in California that is one perfect symbol of the human memory. I've forgotten
the bird's name (just because it would be valuable for me to know it--to recall it to your
own minds, perhaps).

But this fool of a creature goes around collecting the most ridiculous things you can imagine
and storing them up. He never selects a thing that could ever prove of the slightest help to
him; but he goes about gathering iron forks, and spoons, and tin cans, and broken mouse-traps--all
sorts of rubbish that is difficult for him to carry and yet be any use when he gets it. Why,
that bird will go by a gold watch to bring back one of those patent cake-pans.

Now, my mind is just like that, and my mind isn't very different from yours--and so our minds
are just like that bird. We pass by what would be of inestimable value to us, and pack our
memories with the most trivial odds and ends that never by any chance; under any circumstances
whatsoever, could be of the slightest use to any one.

Now, things that I have remembered are constantly popping into my head. And I am repeatedly
startled by the vividness with which they recur to me after the lapse of years and their utter
uselessness in being remembered at all.

I was thinking over some on my way up here. They were the illustrations I spoke about to the
young lady on the way up. And I've come to the conclusion, curious though it is, that I can
use every one of these freaks of memory to teach you all a lesson. I'm convinced that each
one has its moral. And I think it's my duty to hand the moral on to you.

Now, I recall that when I was a boy I was a good boy--I was a very good boy. Why, I was the
best boy in my school. I was the best boy in that little Mississippi town where I lived. The
population was only about twenty million. You may not believe it, but I was the best boy in
that State--and in the United States, for that matter.

But I don't know why I never heard any one say that but myself. I always recognized it. But
even those nearest and dearest to me couldn't seem to see it. My mother, especially, seemed
to think there was something wrong with that estimate. And she never got over that prejudice.

Now, when my mother got to be eighty-five years old her memory failed her. She forgot little
threads that hold life's patches of meaning together. She was living out West then, and I went
on to visit her.

I hadn't seen my mother in a year or so. And when I got there she knew my face; knew I was
married; knew I had a family, and that I was living with them. But she couldn't, for the life
of her, tell my name or who I was. So I told her I was her boy.

"But you don't live with me," she said.

"No," said I, "I'm living in Rochester."

"What are you doing there?"

"Going to school."

"Large school?"

"Very large."

"All boys?"

"All boys."

"And how do you stand?" said my mother.

"I'm the best boy in that school," I answered.

"Well," said my mother, with a return of her old fire, "I'd like to know what the other boys
are like."

Now, one point in this story is the fact that my mother's mind went back to my school days,
and remembered my little youthful self-prejudice when she'd forgotten everything else about me.

The other point is the moral. There's one there that you will find if you search for it.

Now, here's something else I remember. It's about the first time I ever stole a watermelon.
"Stole" is a strong word. Stole? Stole? No, I don't mean that. It was the first time I ever
withdrew a watermelon. It was the first time I ever extracted a watermelon. That is exactly
the word I want--"extracted." It is definite. It is precise. It perfectly conveys my idea.
Its use in dentistry connotes the delicate shade of meaning I am looking for. You know we never
extract our own teeth.

And it was not my watermelon that I extracted. I extracted that watermelon from a farmer's
wagon while he was inside negotiating with an other customer. I carried that watermelon to
one of the secluded recesses of the lumber-yard, and there I broke it open.

It was a green watermelon.

Well, do you know when I saw that I began to feel sorry--sorry--sorry. It seemed to me that
I had done wrong. I reflected deeply. I reflected that I was young--I think I was just eleven.
But I knew that though immature I did not lack moral advancement. I knew what a boy ought to
do who had extracted a watermelon--like that.

I considered George Washington, and what action he would have taken under similar circumstances.
Then I knew there was just one thing to make me feel right inside, and that was--Restitution.

So I said to myself: "I will do that. I will take that green watermelon back where I got it
from." And the minute I had said it I felt that great moral uplift that comes to you when you've
made a noble resolution.

So I gathered up the biggest fragments, and I carried them back to the farmer's wagon, and
I restored the watermelon--what was left of it. And I made him give me a good one in place
of it, too.

And I told him he ought to be ashamed of himself going around working off his worthless, old,
green watermelons on trusting purchasers who had to rely on him. How could they tell from the
outside whither the melons were good or not? That was his business. And if he didn't reform,
I told him I'd see that he didn't get any more of my trade--nor anybody, else's I knew, if
I could help it.

You know that man was as contrite as a revivalist's last convert. He said he was all broken
up to think I'd gotten a green watermelon. He promised the he would never carry another green
watermelon if he starved for it. And he drove off--a better man.

Now, do you see what I did for that man? He was on a downward path, and I rescued him. But
all I got out of it was a watermelon.

Yet I'd rather have that memory--just that memory of the good I did for that depraved farmer--than
all the material gain you can think of. Look at the lesson he got! I never got anything like
that from it. But I ought to be satisfied: I was only eleven years old, but I secured everlasting
benefit to other people.

The moral in this is perfectly clear, and I think there's one in they next memory I'm going
to tell you about.

To go back to my childhood, there's another little incident that comes to me from which you
can draw even another moral. It's about one of the times I went fishing. You see, in our house
there was a sort of family prejudice against going fishing if you hadn't permission. But it
would frequently be bad judgment to ask. So I went fishing secretly, as it were--way up the
Mississippi. It was an exquisitely happy trip, I recall, with a very pleasant sensation.

Well, while I was away there was a tragedy in our town. A stranger, stopping over on his way
East from California; was stabbed to death in an unseemly brawl.

Now; my father was justice of the peace, and because he was justice of the peace he was coroner;
and since he was coroner he was also constable; and being constable he was sheriff; and out
of consideration for his holding the office of sheriff he was likewise county clerk and a dozen
other officials I don't think of just this minute.

I thought he had power of life or death, only he didn't use it over other boys. He was sort
of an austere man. Somehow I didn't like being round him when I'd done anything he, disapproved
of. So that's the reason I wasn't often around.

Well, when this gentleman got knifed they communicated with the proper authority; the coroner,
and they laid, the corpse out in the coroner's office--our front sitting-room--in preparation
for the inquest the next morning.

About 9 or 10 o'clock I got back from fishing. It was a little too late for me to be received
by my folks, so I took my shoes off and slipped noiselessly up the back way to the sitting-room.
I was very tired, and I didn't wish to disturb my people. So I groped my way to the sofa and
lay down.

Now, I didn't know anything of what had happened during my absence. But I was sort of nervous
on my own account-afraid of being caught, and rather dubious about the morning affair. And
I had been lying there a few moments when my eyes gradually got used to the darkness, and I
became aware of something on the other side of the room.

It was something foreign to the apartment. It had an uncanny appearance. And I sat up looking
very hard, and wondering what in heaven this long, formless, vicious-looking thing might be.

First I thought I'd go and see. Then I thought, "Never mind that."

Mind you, I had no cowardly sensations whatever, but it didn't seem exactly prudent to investigate.
But I somehow couldn't keep my eyes off the thing. And the more I looked at it the more disagreeably
it grew on me. But I was resolved to play the man. So I decided to turn over and count a hundred,
and let the patch of moonlight creep up and show me what the dickens it was.

I turned over and tried to count, but I couldn't keep my mind on it. I kept thinking of that
grewsome mass. I was losing count all the time, and going back and beginning over again. Oh
no; I wasn't frightened--just annoyed. But by the time I'd gotten to the century mark I turned
cautiously over and opened my eyes with great fortitude.

The moonlight revealed to me a marble-white human hand. Well, maybe I wasn't embarrassed! But
then that changed to a creepy feeling again, and I thought I'd try the counting again. I don't
know how many hours or weeks it was that I lay there counting hard. But the moonlight crept
up that white arm, and it showed me a lead face and a terrible wound over the heart.

I could scarcely say that I was terror-stricken or anything like that. But somehow his eyes
interested me so that I went right out of the window. I didn't need the sash. But it seemed
easier to take it than leave it behind.

Now, let that teach you a lesson--I don't know just what it is. But at seventy years old I
find that memory of peculiar value to me. I have been unconsciously guided by it all these
years. Things that seemed pigeon-holed and remote are a perpetual influence. Yes, you're taught
in so many ways. And you're so felicitously taught when you don't know it.

Here's something else that taught me a good deal.

When I was seventeen I was very bashful, and a sixteen-year-old girl came to stay a week with
us. She was a peach, and I was seized with a happiness not of this world.

One evening my mother suggested that, to entertain her, I take her to the theatre. I didn't
really like to, because I was seventeen and sensitive about appearing in the streets with a
girl. I couldn't see my way to enjoying my delight in public. But we went.

I didn't feel very happy. I couldn't seem to keep my mind on the play. I became conscious,
after a while, that that was due less to my lovely company than my boots. They were sweet to
look upon, as smooth as skin, but fitted ten time as close. I got oblivious to the play and
the girl and the other people and everything but my boots until--I hitched one partly off.
The sensation was sensuously perfect: I couldn't help it. I had to get the other off, partly.
Then I was obliged to get them off altogether, except that I kept my feet in the legs so they
couldn't get away.

From that time I enjoyed the play. But the first thing I knew the curtain came down, like that,
without my notice, and--I hadn't any boots on. What's more, they wouldn't go on. I tugged strenuously.
And the people in our row got up and fussed and said things until the peach and I simply had
to move on.

We moved--the girl on one arm and the boots under the other.

We walked home that way, sixteen blocks, with a retinue a mile long: Every time we passed a
lamp-post, death gripped one at the throat. But we, got home--and I had on white socks.

If I live to be nine hundred and ninety-nine years old I don't suppose I could ever forget
that walk. I, remember, it about as keenly as the chagrin I suffered on another occasion.

At one time in our domestic history we had a colored butler who had a failing. He could never
remember to ask people who came to the door to state their business. So I used to suffer a
good many calls unnecessarily.

One morning when I was especially busy he brought me a card engraved with a name I did not
know. So I said, "What does he wish to see me for?" and Sylvester said, "Ah couldn't ask him,
sah; he, wuz a genlinun." "Return instantly," I thundered, "and inquire his mission. Ask him
what's his game." Well, Sylvester returned with the announcement that he had lightning-rods
to sell. "Indeed," said I, "things are coming to a fine pass when lightning-rod agents send
up engraved cards." "He has pictures," added Sylvester. "Pictures, indeed! He maybe peddling
etchings. Has he a Russia leather case?" But Sylvester was too frightened to remember. I said;
"I am going down to make it hot for that upstart!"

I went down the stairs, working up my temper all the way. When I got to the parlor I was in
a fine frenzy concealed beneath a veneer of frigid courtesy. And when I looked in the door,
sure enough he had a Russia leather case in his hand. But I didn't happen to notice that it
was our Russia leather case.

And if you'd believe me, that man was sitting with a whole gallery of etchings spread out before
him. But I didn't happen to notice that they were our etchings, spread out by some member of
my family for some unguessed purpose.

Very curtly I asked the gentleman his business. With a surprised, timid manner he faltered
that he had met my wife and daughter at Onteora, and they had asked him to call. Fine lie,
I thought, and I froze him.

He seemed to be kind of non-plussed, and sat there fingering the etchings in the case until
I told him he needn't bother, because we had those. That pleased him so much that he leaned
over, in an embarrassed way, to pick up another from the floor. But I stopped him. I said,
"We've got that, too." He seemed pitifully amazed, but I was congratulating myself on my great
success.

Finally the gentleman asked where Mr. Winton lived; he'd met him in the mountains, too. So
I said I'd show him gladly. And I did on the spot. And when he was gone I felt queer, because
there were all his etchings spread out on the floor.

Well, my wife came in and asked me who had been in. I showed her the card, and told her all
exultantly. To my dismay she nearly fainted. She told me he had been a most kind friend to
them in the country, and had forgotten to tell me that he was expected our way. And she pushed
me out of the door, and commanded me to get over to the Wintons in a hurry and get him back.

I came into the drawing-room, where Mrs. Winton was sitting up very stiff in a chair, beating
me at my own game. Well, I began, to put another light on things. Before many seconds Mrs.
Winton saw it was time to change her temperature. In five minutes I had asked the man to luncheon,
and she to dinner, and so on.

We made that fellow change his trip and stay a week, and we gave him the time of his life.
Why, I don't believe we let him get sober the whole time.

I trust that you will carry away some good thought from these lessons I have given you, and
that the memory of them will inspire you to higher things, and elevate you to plans far above
the old--and--and--

And I tell you one thing, young ladies: I've had a better time with you to-day than with that
peach fifty-three years ago.

QUEEN VICTORIA

          ADDRESS TO THE BRITISH SCHOOLS AND UNIVERSITIES CLUB, AT
          DELMONICO'S, MONDAY, MAY 25, IN HONOR OF QUEEN VICTORIA'S
          BIRTHDAY

          Mr. Clemens told the story of his duel with a rival editor: how
          he practised firing at a barn door and failed to hit it, but a
          friend of his took off the head of a little bird at thirty-five
          yards and attributed the shot to Mark twain.  The duel did not
          take place.  Mr. Clemens continued as follows:

It also happened that I was the means of stopping duelling in Nevada, for a law was passed
sending all duellists to jail for two years, and the Governor, hearing of my marksmanship,
said that if he got me I should go to prison for the full term. That's why I left Nevada, and
I have not been there since.

You do me a high honor, indeed, in selecting me to speak of my country in this commemoration
of the birthday of that noble lady whose life was consecrated to the virtues and the humanities
and to the promotion of lofty ideals, and was a model upon which many a humbler life was formed
and made beautiful while she lived, and upon which many such lives will still be formed in
the generations that are to come--a life which finds its just image in the star which falls
out of its place in the sky and out of existence, but whose light still streams with unfaded
lustre across the abysses of space long after its fires have been extinguished at their source.

As a woman the Queen was all that the most exacting standards could require. As a far-reaching
and effective beneficent moral force she had no peer in her time among either, monarchs or
commoners. As a monarch she was without reproach in her great office. We may not venture, perhaps,
to say so sweeping a thing as this in cold blood about any monarch that preceded her upon either
her own throne or upon any other. It is a colossal eulogy, but it is justified.

In those qualities of the heart which beget affection in all sorts and conditions of men she
was rich, surprisingly rich, and for this she will still be remembered and revered in the far-off
ages when the political glories of her reign shall have faded from vital history and fallen
to a place in that scrap-heap of unverifiable odds and ends which we call tradition. Which
is to say, in briefer phrase, that her name will live always. And with it her character--a
fame rare in the history of thrones, dominions, principalities, and powers, since it will not
rest upon harvested selfish and sordid ambitions, but upon love, earned and freely vouchsafed.
She mended broken hearts where she could, but she broke none.

What she did for us in America in our time of storm and stress we shall not forget, and whenever
we call it to mind we shall always remember the wise and righteous mind that guided her in
it and sustained and supported her--Prince Albert's. We need not talk any idle talk here to-night
about either possible or impossible war between the two countries; there will be no war while
we remain sane and the son of Victoria and Albert sits upon the throne. In conclusion, I believe
I may justly claim to utter the voice of my country in saying that we hold him in deep honor,
and also in cordially wishing him a long life and a happy reign.

JOAN OF ARC

          ADDRESS AT THE DINNER OF THE SOCIETY OF ILLUSTRATORS, GIVEN AT
          THE ALDINE ASSOCIATION CLUB, DECEMBER 22, 1905

          Just before Mr. Clemens made his speech, a young woman attired
          as Joan of Arc, with a page bearing her flag of battle,
          courtesied reverently and tendered Mr. Clemens a laurel wreath
          on a satin pillow.  He tried to speak, but his voice failed
          from excess of emotion. "I thank you!" he finally exclaimed,
          and, pulling him self together, he began his speech.

Now there is an illustration [pointing to the retreating Joan of Arc]. That is exactly what
I wanted--precisely what I wanted--when I was describing to myself Joan of Arc, after studying
her history and her character for twelve years diligently.

That was the product--not the conventional Joan of Arc. Wherever you find the conventional
Joan of Arc in history she is an offence to anybody who knows the story of that wonderful girl.

Why, she was--she was almost supreme in several details. She had a marvellous intellect; she
had a great heart, had a noble spirit, was absolutely pure in her character, her feeling, her
language, her words, her everything--she was only eighteen years old.

Now put that heart into such a breast--eighteen years old--and give it that masterly intellect
which showed in the face, and furnish it with that almost god-like spirit, and what are you
going to have? The conventional Joan of Arc? Not by any means. That is impossible. I cannot
comprehend any such thing as that.

You must have a creature like that young and fair and beautiful girl we just saw. And her spirit
must look out of the eyes. The figure should be--the figure should be in harmony with all that,
but, oh, what we get in the conventional picture, and it is always the conventional picture!

I hope you will allow me to say that your guild, when you take the conventional, you have got
it at second-hand. Certainly, if you had studied and studied, then you might have something
else as a result, but when you have the common convention you stick to that.

You cannot prevail upon the artist to do it; he always gives you a Joan of Arc--that lovely
creature that started a great career at thirteen, but whose greatness arrived when she was
eighteen; and merely, because she was a girl he can not see the divinity in her, and so he
paints a peasant, a coarse and lubberly figure--the figure of a cotton-bale, and he clothes
that in the coarsest raiment of the peasant region just like a fish woman, her hair cropped
short like a Russian peasant, and that face of hers, which should be beautiful and which should
radiate all the glories which are in the spirit and in her heart that expression in that face
is always just the fixed expression of a ham.

But now Mr. Beard has intimated a moment ago, and so has Sir Purdon-Clarke also, that the artist,
the illustrator, does not often get the idea of the man whose book he is illustrating. Here
is a very remarkable instance of the other thing in Mr. Beard, who illustrated a book of mine.
You may never have heard of it. I will tell you about it now--A Yankee in King Arthur's Court.

Now, Beard got everything that I put into that book and a little more besides. Those pictures
of Beard's in that book--oh, from the first page to the last is one vast sardonic laugh at
the trivialities, the servilities of our poor human race, and also at the professions and the
insolence of priest-craft and king-craft--those creatures that make slaves of themselves and
have not the manliness to shake it off. Beard put it all in that book. I meant it to be there.
I put a lot of it there and Beard put the rest.

What publisher of mine in Hartford had an eye for the pennies, and he saved them. He did not
waste any on the illustrations. He had a very good artist--Williams--who had never taken a
lesson in drawing. Everything he did was original. The publisher hired the cheapest wood-engraver
he could find, and in my early books you can see a trace of that. You can see that if Williams
had had a chance he would have made some very good pictures. He had a good heart and good intentions.

I had a character in the first book he illustrated--The Innocents Abroad. That was a boy seventeen
or eighteen years old--Jack Van Nostrand--a New York boy, who, to my mind, was a very remarkable
creature. He and I tried to get Williams to understand that boy, and make a picture of Jack
that would be worthy of Jack.

Jack was a most singular combination. He was born and reared in New York here. He was as delicate
in his feelings, as clean and pure and refined in his feelings as any lovely girl that ever
was, but whenever he expressed a feeling he did it in Bowery slang, and it was a most curious
combination--that delicacy of his and that apparent coarseness. There was no coarseness inside
of Jack at all, and Jack, in the course of seventeen or eighteen years, had acquired a capital
of ignorance that was marvellous--ignorance of various things, not of all things. For instance,
he did not know anything about the Bible. He had never been in Sunday-school. Jack got more
out of the Holy Land than anybody else, because the others knew what they were expecting, but
it was a land of surprises to him.

I said in the book that we found him watching a turtle on a log, stoning that turtle, and he
was stoning that turtle because he had read that "The song of the turtle was heard in the land,"
and this turtle wouldn't sing. It sounded absurd, but it was charged on Jack as a fact, and
as he went along through that country he had a proper foil in an old rebel colonel, who was
superintendent and head engineer in a large Sunday-school in Wheeling, West Virginia. That
man was full of enthusiasm wherever he went, and would stand and deliver himself of speeches,
and Jack would listen to those speeches of the colonel and wonder.

Jack had made a trip as a child almost across this continent in the first overland stage-coach.
That man's name who ran that line of stages--well, I declare that name is gone. Well, names
will go.

Halliday--ah, that's the name--Ben Halliday, your uncle [turning to Mr. Carnegie]. That was
the fellow--Ben Halliday--and Jack was full of admiration at the prodigious speed that that
line of stages made--and it was good speed--one hundred and twenty-five miles a day, going
day and night, and it was the event of Jack's life, and there at the Fords of the Jordan the
colonel was inspired to a speech (he was always making a speech), so he called us up to him.
He called up five sinners and three saints. It has been only lately that Mr. Carnegie beatified
me. And he said: "Here are the Fords of the Jordan--a monumental place. At this very point,
when Moses brought the children of Israel through--he brought the children of Israel from Egypt
through the desert you see them--he guarded them through that desert patiently, patiently during
forty years, and brought them to this spot safe and sound. There you see--there is the scene
of what Moses did."

And Jack said: "Moses who?"

"Oh," he says, "Jack, you ought not to ask that! Moses, the great law-giver! Moses, the great
patriot! Moses, the great warrior! Moses, the great guide, who, as I tell you, brought these
people through these three hundred miles of sand in forty years, and landed there safe and sound."

Jack said: "There's nothin' in that three hundred miles in forty years. Ben Halliday would
have snaked 'em through in thirty--six hours."

Well, I was speaking of Jack's innocence, and it was beautiful. Jack was not ignorant on all
subjects. That boy was a deep student in the history of Anglo-Saxon liberty, and he was a patriot
all the way through to the marrow. There was a subject that interested him all the time. Other
subjects were of no concern to Jack, but that quaint, inscrutable innocence of his I could
not get Williams to put into the picture.

Yes, Williams wanted to do it. He said: "I will make him as innocent as a virgin." He thought
a moment, and then said, "I will make him as innocent as an unborn virgin;" which covered the
ground.

I was reminded of Jack because I came across a letter to-day which is over thirty years old
that Jack wrote. Jack was doomed to consumption. He was very long and slim, poor creature;
and in a year or two after he got back from that excursion, to the Holy Land he went on a ride
on horseback through Colorado, and he did not last but a year or two.

He wrote this letter, not to me, but to a friend of mine; and he said: "I have ridden horseback"--this
was three years after--"I hate ridden horseback four hundred miles through a desert country
where you never see anything but cattle now and then, and now and then a cattle station--ten
miles apart, twenty miles apart. Now you tell Clemens that in all that stretch of four hundred
miles I have seen only two books--the Bible and 'Innocents Abroad'. Tell Clemens the Bible
was in a very good condition."

I say that he had studied, and he had, the real Saxon liberty, the acquirement of our liberty,
and Jack used to repeat some verses--I don't know where they came from, but I thought of them
to-day when I saw that letter--that that boy could have been talking of himself in those quoted
lines from that unknown poet:

               "For he had sat at Sidney's feet
               And walked with him in plain apart,
               And through the centuries heard the beat
               Of Freedom's march through Cromwell's heart."

And he was that kind of a boy. He should have lived, and yet he should not have lived, because
he died at that early age--he couldn't have been more than twenty--he had seen all there was
to see in the world that was worth the trouble of living in it; he had seen all of this world
that is valuable; he had seen all of this world that was illusion, and illusion, is the only
valuable thing in it. He had arrived at that point where presently the illusions would cease
and he would have entered upon the realities of life, and God help the man that has arrived
at that point.

ACCIDENT INSURANCE--ETC.

          DELIVERED IN HARTFORD, AT A DINNER TO CORNELIUS WALFORD,
          OF LONDON

GENTLEMAN,--I am glad, indeed, to assist in welcoming the distinguished guest of this occasion
to a city whose fame as an insurance centre has extended to all lands, and given us the name
of being a quadruple band of brothers working sweetly hand in hand--the Colt's arms company
making the destruction of our race easy and convenient, our life-insurance citizens paying
for the victims when they pass away, Mr. Batterson perpetuating their memory with his stately
monuments, and our fire-insurance comrades taking care of their hereafter. I am glad to assist
in welcoming our guest--first, because he is an Englishman, and I owe a heavy debt of hospitality
to certain of his fellow-countrymen; and secondly, because he is in sympathy with insurance,
and has been the means of making many other men cast their sympathies in the same direction.

Certainly there is no nobler field for human effort than the insurance line of business--especially
accident insurance. Ever since I have been a director in an accident-insurance company I have
felt that I am a better man. Life has seemed more precious. Accidents have assumed a kindlier
aspect. Distressing special providences have lost half their horror. I look upon a cripple
now with affectionate interest--as an advertisement. I do not seem, to care for poetry any
more. I do not care for politics--even agriculture does not excite me. But to me now there
is a charm about a railway collision that is unspeakable.

There is nothing more beneficent than accident insurance. I have seen an entire family lifted
out of poverty and into affluence by the simple boon of a broken leg. I have had people come
to me on crutches, with tears in their eyes, to bless this beneficent institution. In all my
experience of life, I have seen nothing so seraphic as the look that comes into a freshly mutilated
man's face when he feels in his vest pocket with his remaining hand and finds his accident
ticket all right. And I have seen nothing so sad as the look that came into another splintered
customer's face when he found he couldn't collect on a wooden leg.

I will remark here, by way of advertisement, that that noble charity which we have named the
HARTFORD ACCIDENT INSURANCE COMPANY is an institution, which is peculiarly to be depended upon.
A man is bound to prosper who gives it his custom. No man pan take out a policy in it and not
get crippled before the year is out. Now there was one indigent man who had been disappointed
so often with other companies that he had grown disheartened, his appetite left him, he ceased
to smile--said life was but a weariness. Three weeks ago I got him to insure with us, and now
he is the brightest, happiest spirit in this land--has a good steady income and a stylish suit
of new bandages every day, and travels around on a shutter.

I will say in conclusion, that my share of the welcome to our guest is none the less hearty
because I talk so much nonsense, and I know that I curl say the same far the rest of the speakers.

OSTEOPATHY

          On February 27, 1901, Mr. Clemens appeared before the Assembly
          Committee in Albany, New York, in favor of the Seymour bill
          legalizing the practice of osteopathy.

MR. CHAIRMAN AND GENTLEMEN,--Dr. Van Fleet is the gentleman who gave me the character. I have
heard my character discussed a thousand times before you were born, sir, and shown the iniquities
in it, and you did not get more than half of them.

I was touched and distressed when they brought that part of a child in here, and proved that
you cannot take a child to pieces in that way. What remarkable names those diseases have! It
makes me envious of the man that has them all. I have had many diseases, and am thankful for
all I have had.

One of the gentlemen spoke of the knowledge of something else found in Sweden, a treatment
which I took. It is, I suppose, a kindred thing. There is apparently no great difference between
them. I was a year and a half in London and Sweden, in the hands of that grand old man, Mr.
Kildren.

I cannot call him a doctor, for he has not the authority to give a certificate if a patient
should die, but fortunately they don't.

The State stands as a mighty Gibraltar clothed with power. It stands between me and my body,
and tells me what kind of a doctor I must employ. When my soul is sick unlimited spiritual
liberty is given me by the State. Now then, it doesn't seem logical that the State shall depart
from this great policy, the health of the soul, and change about and take the other position
in the matter of smaller consequence--the health of the body.

The Bell bill limitations would drive the osteopaths out of the State. Oh, dear me! when you
drive somebody out of the State you create the same condition as prevailed in the Garden of Eden.

You want the thing that you can't have. I didn't care much about the osteopaths, but as soon
as I found they were going to drive them out I got in a state of uneasiness, and I can't sleep
nights now.

I know how Adam felt in the Garden of Eden about the prohibited apple. Adam didn't want the
apple till he found out he couldn't have it, just as he would have wanted osteopathy if he
couldn't have it.

Whose property is my body? Probably mine. I so regard it. If I experiment with it, who must
be answerable? I, not the State. If I choose injudiciously, does the State die? Oh no.

I was the subject of my mother's experiment. She was wise. She made experiments cautiously.
She didn't pick out just any child in the flock. No, she chose judiciously. She chose one she
could spare, and she couldn't spare the others. I was the choice child of the flock; so I had
to take all of the experiments.

In 1844 Kneipp filled the world with the wonder of the water cure. Mother wanted to try it,
but on sober second thought she put me through. A bucket of ice-water was poured over to see
the effect. Then I was rubbed down with flannels, sheet was dipped in the water, and I was
put to bed. I perspired so much that mother put a life-preserver to bed with me.

But this had nothing but a spiritual effect on me, and I didn't care for that. When they took
off the sheet it was yellow from the output of my conscience, the exudation of sin. It purified
me spiritually, and it remains until this day.

I have experimented with osteopathy and allopathy. I took a chance at the latter for old times'
sake, for, three tines, when a boy, mother's new methods got me so near death's door she had
to call in the family physician to pull me out.

The physicians think they are moved by regard for the best interests of the public. Isn't there
a little touch of self-interest back of it all? It seems to me there is, and I don't claim
to have all the virtues--only nine or ten of them.

I was born in the "Banner State," and by "Banner State" I mean Missouri. Osteopathy was born
in the same State, and both of us are getting along reasonably well. At a time during my younger
days my attention was attracted to a picture of a house which bore the inscription, "Christ
Disputing with the Doctors."

I could attach no other meaning to it than that Christ was actually quarreling with the doctors.
So I asked an old slave, who was a sort of a herb doctor in a small way--unlicensed, of course--what
the meaning of the picture was. "What had has done?" I asked. And the colored man replied "Humph,
he ain't got no license."

WATER-SUPPLY

          Mr. Clemens visited Albany on February 21 and 28, 1901. The
          privileges of the floor were granted and he was asked to make a
          short address to the Senate.

MR. PRESIDENT AND GENTLEMEN,--I do not know how to thank you sufficiently for this high honor
which you are conferring upon me. I have for the second time now enjoyed this kind of prodigal
hospitality--in the other House yesterday, to-day in this one. I am a modest man, and diffident
about appearing before legislative bodies, and yet utterly an entirely appreciative of a courtesy
like this when it is extended to me, and I thank you very much for it.

If I had the privilege, which unfortunately I have not got, of suggesting things to the legislators
in my individual capacity, I would so enjoy the opportunity that I would not charge anything
for it at all. I would do that without a salary. I would give them the benefit of my wisdom
and experience in legislative bodies, and if I could have had the privilege for a few minutes
of giving advice to the other House I should have liked to, but of course I could not undertake
it, as they did not ask me to do it--but if they had only asked me!

Now that the House is considering a measure which is to furnish a water-supply to the city
of New York, why, permit me to say I live in New York myself. I know all about its ways, its
desires, and its residents, and--if I had the privilege--I should have urged them not to weary
themselves over a measure like that to furnish water to the city of New York, for we never
drink it.

But I will not venture to advise this body, as I only venture to advise bodies who are, not
present.

MISTAKEN IDENTITY

ADDRESS AT THE ANNUAL "LADIES' DAY," PAPYRUS CLUB, BOSTON

LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,--I am perfectly astonished--a-s-t-o-n-i-s-h-e-d--ladies and gentlemen--astonished
at the way history repeats itself. I find myself situated at this moment exactly and precisely
as I was once before, years ago, to a jot, to a tittle--to a very hair. There isn't a shade
of difference. It is the most astonishing coincidence that ever--but wait. I will tell you
the former instance, and then you will see it for yourself. Years ago I arrived one day at
Salamanca, New York, eastward bound; must change cars there and take the sleeper train. There
were crowds of people there, and they were swarming into the long sleeper train and packing
it full, and it was a perfect purgatory of dust and confusion and gritting of teeth and soft,
sweet, and low profanity. I asked the young man in the ticket-office if I could have a sleeping-section,
and he answered "No," with a snarl that shrivelled me up like burned leather. I went off, smarting
under this insult to my dignity, and asked another local official, supplicatingly, if I couldn't
have some poor little corner somewhere in a sleeping-car; but he cut me short with a venomous
"No, you can't; every corner is full. Now, don't bother me any more"; and he turned his back
and walked off. My dignity was in a state now which cannot be described. I was so ruffled that--"well,"
I said to my companion, "If these people knew who I am they--" But my companion cut me short
there--"Don't talk such folly," he said; "if they did know who you are, do you suppose it would
help your high-mightiness to a vacancy in a train which has no vacancies in it?"

This did not improve my condition any to speak of, but just then I observed that the colored
porter of a sleeping-car had his eye on me. I saw his dark countenance light up. He whispered
to the uniformed conductor, punctuating with nods and jerks toward me, and straightway this
conductor came forward, oozing politeness from every pore.

"Can I be of any service to you?" he asked. "Will you have a place in the sleeper?"

"Yes," I said, "and much oblige me, too. Give me anything--anything will answer."

"We have nothing left but the big family state-room," he continued, "with two berths and a
couple of arm-chairs in it, but it is entirely at your disposal. Here, Tom, take these satchels
aboard!"

Then he touched his hat and we and the colored Tom moved along. I was bursting to drop just
one little remark to my companion, but I held in and waited. Tom made us comfortable in that
sumptuous great apartment, and then said, with many bows and a perfect affluence of smiles:

"Now, is dey anything you want, sah? Case you kin have jes' anything you wants. It don't make
no difference what it is."

"Can I have some hot water and a tumbler at nine to-night-blazing hot?" I asked. "You know
about the right temperature for a hot Scotch punch?"

"Yes, sah, dat you kin; you kin pen on it; I'll get it myself."

"Good! Now, that lamp is hung too high. Can I have a big coach candle fixed up just at the
head of my bed, so that I can read comfortably?"

"Yes, sah, you kin; I'll fix her up myself, an' I'll fix her so she'll burn all night. Yes,
sah; an' you can jes' call for anything you want, and dish yer whole railroad'll be turned
wrong end up an' inside out for to get it for you. Dat's so." And he disappeared.

Well, I tilted my head back, hooked my thumbs in my armholes, smiled a smile on my companion,
and said, gently:

"Well, what do you say now?"

My companion was not in the humor to respond, and didn't. The next moment that smiling black
face was thrust in at the crack of the door, and this speech followed:

"Laws bless you, sah, I knowed you in a minute. I told de conductah so. Laws! I knowed you
de minute I sot eyes on you."

"Is that so, my boy?" (Handing him a quadruple fee.) "Who am I?"

"Jenuel McClellan," and he disappeared again.

My companion said, vinegarishly, "Well, well! what do you say now?" Right there comes in the
marvellous coincidence I mentioned a while ago--viz., I was speechless, and that is my condition
now. Perceive it?

CATS AND CANDY

          The following address was delivered at a social meeting of
          literary men in New York in 1874:

When I was fourteen I was living with my parents, who were very poor--and correspondently honest.
We had a youth living with us by the name of Jim Wolfe. He was an excellent fellow, seventeen
years old, and very diffident. He and I slept together--virtuously; and one bitter winter's
night a cousin Mary--she's married now and gone--gave what they call a candy-pulling in those
days in the West, and they took the saucers of hot candy outside of the house into the snow,
under a sort of old bower that came from the eaves--it was a sort of an ell then, all covered
with vines--to cool this hot candy in the snow, and they were all sitting there. In the mean
time we were gone to bed. We were not invited to attend this party; we were too young.

The young ladies and gentlemen were assembled there, and Jim and I were in bed. There was about
four inches of snow on the roof of this ell, and our windows looked out on it; and it was frozen
hard. A couple of tom-cats--it is possible one might have been of the opposite sex--were assembled
on the chimney in the middle of this ell, and they were growling at a fearful rate, and switching
their tails about and going on, and we couldn't sleep at all.

Finally Jim said, "For two cents I'd go out and snake them cats off that chimney." So I said,
"Of course you would." He said, "Well, I would; I have a mighty good notion to do it." Says
I, "Of course you have; certainly you have, you have a great notion to do it." I hoped he might
try it, but I was afraid he wouldn't.

Finally I did get his ambition up, and he raised the window and climbed out on the icy roof,
with nothing on but his socks and a very short shirt. He went climbing along on all fours on
the roof toward the chimney where the cats were. In the mean time these young ladies and gentlemen
were enjoying themselves down under the eaves, and when Jim got almost to that chimney he made
a pass at the cats, and his heels flew up and he shot down and crashed through those vines,
and lit in the midst of the ladies and gentlemen, and sat down in those hot saucers of candy.

There was a stampede, of course, and he came up-stairs dropping pieces of chinaware and candy
all the way up, and when he got up there--now anybody in the world would have gone into profanity
or something calculated to relieve the mind, but he didn't; he scraped the candy off his legs,
nursed his blisters a little, and said, "I could have ketched them cats if I had had on a good
ready."

[Does any reader know what a "ready" was in 1840? D.W.]

OBITUARY POETRY

          ADDRESS AT THE ACTORS' FUND FAIR, PHILADELPHIA, in 1895

LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,--The--er this--er--welcome occasion gives me an--er--opportunity to make
an--er--explanation that I have long desired to deliver myself of. I rise to the highest honors
before a Philadelphia audience. In the course of my checkered career I have, on divers occasions,
been charged--er--maliciously with a more or less serious offence. It is in reply to one of
the more--er--important of these that I wish to speak. More than once I have been accused of
writing obituary poetry in the Philadelphia Ledger.

I wish right here to deny that dreadful assertion. I will admit that once, when a compositor
in the Ledger establishment, I did set up some of that poetry, but for a worse offence than
that no indictment can be found against me. I did not write that poetry--at least, not all of it.

CIGARS AND TOBACCO

My friends for some years now have remarked that I am an inveterate consumer of tobacco. That
is true, but my habits with regard to tobacco have changed. I have no doubt that you will say,
when I have explained to you what my present purpose is, that my taste has deteriorated, but
I do not so regard it.

Whenever I held a smoking-party at my house, I found that my guests had always just taken the
pledge.

Let me tell you briefly the history of my personal relation to tobacco. It began, I think,
when I was a lad, and took the form of a quid, which I became expert in tucking under my tongue.
Afterward I learned the delights of the pipe, and I suppose there was no other youngster of
my age who could more deftly cut plug tobacco so as to make it available for pipe-smoking.

Well, time ran on, and there came a time when I was able to gratify one of my youthful ambitions--I
could buy the choicest Havana cigars without seriously interfering with my income. I smoked
a good many, changing off from the Havana cigars to the pipe in the course of a day's smoking.

At last it occurred to me that something was lacking in the Havana cigar. It did not quite
fulfil my youthful anticipations. I experimented. I bought what was called a seed-leaf cigar
with a Connecticut wrapper. After a while I became satiated of these, and I searched for something
else, The Pittsburg stogy was recommended to me. It certainly had the merit of cheapness, if
that be a merit in tobacco, and I experimented with the stogy.

Then, once more, I changed off, so that I might acquire the subtler flavor of the Wheeling
toby. Now that palled, and I looked around New York in the hope of finding cigars which would
seem to most people vile, but which, I am sure, would be ambrosial to me. I couldn't find any.
They put into my hands some of those little things that cost ten cents a box, but they are
a delusion.

I said to a friend, "I want to know if you can direct me to an honest tobacco merchant who
will tell me what is the worst cigar in the New York market, excepting those made for Chinese
consumption--I want real tobacco. If you will do this and I find the man is as good as his
word, I will guarantee him a regular market for a fair amount of his cigars."

We found a tobacco dealer who would tell the truth--who, if a cigar was bad, would boldly say
so. He produced what he called the very worst cigars he had ever had in his shop. He let me
experiment with one then and there. The test was satisfactory.

This was, after all, the real thing. I negotiated for a box of them and took them away with
me, so that I might be sure of having them handy when I want them.

I discovered that the "worst cigars," so called, are the best for me, after all.

BILLIARDS

          Mr. Clemens attended a billiard tourney on the evening of April
          24, 1906, and was called on to tell a story.

The game of billiards has destroyed my naturally sweet disposition. Once, when I was an underpaid
reporter in Virginia City, whenever I wished to play billiards I went out to look for an easy
mark. One day a stranger came to town and opened a billiard parlor. I looked him over casually.
When he proposed a game, I answered, "All right."

"Just knock the balls around a little so that I can get your gait," he said; and when I had
done so, he remarked: "I will be perfectly fair with you. I'll play you left-handed." I felt
hurt, for he was cross-eyed, freckled, and had red hair, and I determined to teach him a lesson.
He won first shot, ran out, took my half-dollar, and all I got was the opportunity to chalk my cue.

"If you can play like that with your left hand," I said, "I'd like to see you play with your
right."

"I can't," he said. "I'm left-handed."

THE UNION RIGHT OR WRONG

          REMINISCENCES OF NEVADA

I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that Nevada had lively newspapers in those days.

My great competitor among the reporters was Boggs, of the Union, an excellent reporter.

Once in three or four months he would get a little intoxicated; but, as a general thing, he
was a wary and cautious drinker, although always ready to damp himself a little with the enemy.

He had the advantage of me in one thing: he could get the monthly public-school report and
I could not, because the principal hated my sheet--the 'Enterprise'.

One snowy night, when the report was due, I started out, sadly wondering how I was to get it.

Presently, a few steps up the almost deserted street, I stumbled on Boggs, and asked him where
he was going.

"After the school report."

"I'll go along with you."

"No, Sir. I'll excuse you."

"Have it your own way."

A saloon-keeper's boy passed by with a steaming pitcher of hot punch, and Boggs snuffed the
fragrance gratefully.

He gazed fondly after the boy, and saw him start up the Enterprise stairs.

I said:

"I wish you could help me get that school business, but since you can't, I must run up to the
Union office and see if I can get a proof of it after it's set up, though I don't begin to
suppose I can. Good night."

"Hold on a minute. I don't mind getting the report and sitting around with the boys a little
while you copy it, if you're willing to drop down to the principal's with me."

"Now you talk like a human being. Come along."

We ploughed a couple of blocks through the snow, got the report--a short document--and soon
copied it in our office.

Meantime, Boggs helped himself to the punch.

I gave the manuscript back to him, and we started back to get an inquest.

At four o'clock in the morning, when we had gone to press and were having a relaxing concert
as usual (for some of the printers were good singers and others good performers on the guitar
and on that atrocity the accordion), the proprietor of the Union strode in and asked if anybody
had heard anything of Boggs or the school report.

We stated the case, and all turned out to help hunt for the delinquent.

We found him standing on a table in a saloon, with an old tin lantern in one hand and the school
report in the other, haranguing a gang of "corned" miners on, the iniquity of squandering the
public money on education "when hundreds and hundreds of honest, hard-working men were literally
starving for whiskey."

He had been assisting in a regal spree with those parties for hours.

We dragged him away, and put him into bed.

Of course there was no school report in the Union, and Boggs held me accountable, though I
was innocent of any intention or desire to compass its absence from that paper, and was as
sorry as any one that the misfortune had occurred. But we were perfectly friendly.

The day the next school report was due the proprietor of the Tennessee Mine furnished us a
buggy, and asked us to go down and write something about the property--a very common request,
and one always gladly acceded to when people furnished buggies, for we were as fond of pleasure
excursions as other people.

The "mine" was a hole in the ground ninety feet deep, and no way of getting down into it but
by holding on to a rope and being lowered with a windlass.

The workmen had just gone off somewhere to dinner.

I was not strong enough to lower Boggs's bulk, so I took an unlighted candle in my teeth, made
a loop for my foot in the end of the rope, implored Boggs not to go to sleep or let the windlass
get the start of him, and then swung out over the shaft.

I reached the bottom muddy and bruised about the elbows, but safe.

I lit the candle, made an examination of the rock, selected some specimens, and shouted to
Boggs to hoist away.

No answer.

Presently a head appeared in the circle of daylight away aloft, and a voice came down:

"Are you all set?"

"All set-hoist away!"

"Are you comfortable?"

"Perfectly."

"Could you wait a little?"

"Oh, certainly-no particular hurry."

"Well-good-bye."

"Why, where are you going?"

"After the school report!"

And he did.

I stayed down there an hour, and surprised the workmen when they hauled up and found a man
on the rope instead of a bucket of rock.

I walked home, too--five miles-up-hill.

We had no school report next morning--but the Union had.

AN IDEAL FRENCH ADDRESS

     EXTRACT FROM "PARIS NOTES," IN "TOM SAWYER ABROAD," ETC.

I am told that a French sermon is like a French speech--it never names an historical event,
but only the date of it; if you are not up in dates, you get left. A French speech is something
like this:

"Comrades, citizens, brothers, noble parts of the only sublime and perfect nation, let us not
forget that the 21st January cast off our chains; that the 10th August relieved us of the shameful
presence of foreign spies; that the 5th September was its own justification before Heaven and
humanity; that the 18th Brumaire contained the seeds of its own punishment; that the 14th July
was the mighty voice of liberty proclaiming the resurrection, the new day, and inviting the
oppressed peoples of the earth to look upon the divine face of France and live; and let us
here record our everlasting curse against the man of the 2d December, and declare in thunder
tones, the native tones of France, that but for him there had been no 17th Mardi in history,
no 12th October, nor 9th January, no 22d April, no 16th November, no 30th September, no 2d
July, no 14th February, no 29th June, no 15th August, no 31st May--that but for him, France,
the pure, the grand, the peerless, had had a serene and vacant almanac to-day."

I have heard of one French sermon which closed in this odd yet eloquent way:

"My hearers, we have sad cause to remember the man of the 13th January. The results of the
vast crime of the 13th January have been in just proportion to the magnitude of the act itself.
But for it there had been no 30th November--sorrowful spectacle! The grisly deed of the 16th
June had not been done but for it, nor had the man of the 16th June known existence; to it
alone the 3d September was due, also the fatal 12th October. Shall we, then, be grateful for
the 13th January, with its freight of death for you and me and all that breathe? Yes, my friends,
for it gave us also that which had never come but for it, and it alone--the blessed 25th December."

It may be well enough to explain. The man of the 13th January is Adam; the crime of that date
was the eating of the apple; the sorrowful spectacle of the 30th November was the expulsion
from Eden; the grisly deed of the 16th June was the murder of Abel; the act of the 3d September
was the beginning of the journey to the land of Nod; the 12th day of October, the last mountaintops
disappeared under the flood. When you go to church in France, you want to take your almanac
with you--annotated.

STATISTICS

          EXTRACT FROM "THE HISTORY OF THE SAVAGE CLUB"

          During that period of gloom when domestic bereavement had
          forced Mr. Clemens and his dear ones to secure the privacy they
          craved until their wounds should heal, his address was known to
          only a very few of his closest friends.  One old friend in New
          York, after vain efforts to get his address, wrote him a letter
          addressed as follows

                    MARK TWAIN,
                         God Knows Where,
                                   Try London.

          The letter found him, and Mr. Clemens replied to the letter
          expressing himself surprised and complimented that the person
          who was credited with knowing his whereabouts should take so
          much interest in him, adding: "Had the letter been addressed to
          the care of the 'other party,' I would naturally have expected
          to receive it without delay."

          His correspondent tried again, and addressed the second letter:

                    MARK TWAIN,
                         The Devil Knows Where,
                              Try London.

          This found him also no less promptly.

          On June 9, 1899, he consented to visit the Savage Club, London,
          on condition that there was to be no publicity and no speech
          was to be expected from him.  The toastmaster, in proposing the
          health of their guest, said that as a Scotchman, and therefore
          as a born expert, he thought Mark Twain had little or no claim
          to the title of humorist.  Mr. Clemens had tried to be funny
          but had failed, and his true role in life was statistics; that
          he was a master of statistics, and loved them for their own
          sake, and it would be the easiest task he ever undertook if he
          would try to count all the real jokes he had ever made.  While
          the toastmaster was speaking, the members saw Mr. Clemens's
          eyes begin to sparkle and his cheeks to flush.  He jumped up,
          and made a characteristic speech.

Perhaps I am not a humorist, but I am a first-class fool--a simpleton; for up to this moment
I have believed Chairman MacAlister to be a decent person whom I could allow to mix up with
my friends and relatives. The exhibition he has just made of himself reveals him to be a scoundrel
and a knave of the deepest dye. I have been cruelly deceived, and it serves me right for trusting
a Scotchman. Yes, I do understand figures, and I can count. I have counted the words in MacAlister's
drivel (I certainly cannot call it a speech), and there were exactly three thousand four hundred
and thirty-nine. I also carefully counted the lies--there were exactly three thousand four
hundred and thirty-nine. Therefore, I leave MacAlister to his fate.

I was sorry to have my name mentioned as one of the great authors, because they have a sad
habit of dying off. Chaucer is dead, Spencer is dead, so is Milton, so is Shakespeare, and
I am not feeling very well myself.

GALVESTON ORPHAN BAZAAR

          ADDRESS AT A FAIR HELD AT THE WALDORF-ASTORIA, NEW YORK, IN
          OCTOBER, 1900, IN AID OF THE ORPHANS AT GALVESTON

I expected that the Governor of Texas would occupy this place first and would speak to you,
and in the course of his remarks would drop a text for me to talk from; but with the proverbial
obstinacy that is proverbial with governors, they go back on their duties, and he has not come
here, and has not furnished me with a text, and I am here without a text. I have no text except
what you furnish me with your handsome faces, and--but I won't continue that, for I could go
on forever about attractive faces, beautiful dresses, and other things. But, after all, compliments
should be in order in a place like this.

I have been in New York two or three days, and have been in a condition of strict diligence
night and day, the object of this diligence being to regulate the moral and political situation
on this planet--put it on a sound basis--and when you are regulating the conditions of a planet
it requires a great deal of talk in a great many kinds of ways, and when you have talked a
lot the emptier you get, and get also in a position of corking. When I am situated like that,
with nothing to say, I feel as though I were a sort of fraud; I seem to be playing a part,
and please consider I am playing a part for want of something better, and this, is not unfamiliar
to me; I have often done this before.

When I was here about eight years ago I was coming up in a car of the elevated road. Very few
people were in that car, and on one end of it there was no one, except on the opposite seat,
where sat a man about fifty years old, with a most winning face and an elegant eye--a beautiful
eye; and I took him from his dress to be a master mechanic, a man who had a vocation. He had
with him a very fine little child of about four or five years. I was watching the affection
which existed between those two. I judged he was the grandfather, perhaps. It was really a
pretty child, and I was admiring her, and as soon as he saw I was admiring her he began to
notice me.

I could see his admiration of me in his eye, and I did what everybody else would do--admired
the child four times as much, knowing I would get four times as much of his admiration. Things
went on very pleasantly. I was making my way into his heart.

By-and-by, when he almost reached the station where he was to get off, he got up, crossed over,
and he said: "Now I am going to say something to you which I hope you will regard as a compliment."
And then he went on to say: "I have never seen Mark Twain, but I have seen a portrait of him,
and any friend of mine will tell you that when I have once seen a portrait of a man I place
it in my eye and store it away in my memory, and I can tell you now that you look enough like
Mark Twain to be his brother. Now," he said, "I hope you take this as a compliment. Yes, you
are a very good imitation; but when I come to look closer, you are probably not that man."

I said: "I will be frank with you. In my desire to look like that excellent character I have
dressed for the character; I have been playing a part."

He said: "That is all right, that is all right; you look very well on the outside, but when
it comes to the inside you are not in it with the original."

So when I come to a place like this with nothing valuable to say I always play a part. But
I will say before I sit down that when it comes to saying anything here I will express myself
in this way: I am heartily in sympathy with you in your efforts to help those who were sufferers
in this calamity, and in your desire to heap those who were rendered homeless, and in saying
this I wish to impress on you the fact that I am not playing a part.

SAN FRANCISCO EARTHQUAKE

          After the address at the Robert Fulton Fund meeting, June 19,
          1906, Mr. Clemens talked to the assembled reporters about the
          San Francisco earthquake.

I haven't been there since 1868, and that great city of San Francisco has grown up since my
day. When I was there she had one hundred and eighteen thousand people, and of this number
eighteen thousand were Chinese. I was a reporter on the Virginia City Enterprise in Nevada
in 1862, and stayed there, I think, about two years, when I went to San Francisco and got a
job as a reporter on The Call. I was there three or four years.

I remember one day I was walking down Third Street in San Francisco. It was a sleepy, dull
Sunday afternoon, and no one was stirring. Suddenly as I looked up the street about three hundred
yards the whole side of a house fell out. The street was full of bricks and mortar. At the
same time I was knocked against the side of a house, and stood there stunned for a moment.

I thought it was an earthquake. Nobody else had heard anything about it and no one said earthquake
to me afterward, but I saw it and I wrote it. Nobody else wrote it, and the house I saw go
into the street was the only house in the city that felt it. I've always wondered if it wasn't
a little performance gotten up for my especial entertainment by the nether regions.

CHARITY AND ACTORS

          ADDRESS AT THE ACTORS' FUND FAIR IN THE METROPOLITAN
          OPERA HOUSE, NEW YORK, MAY 6, 1907

          Mr. Clemens, in his white suit, formally declared the fair
          open.  Mr. Daniel Frohman, in introducing Mr. Clemens, said:

          "We intend to make this a banner week in the history of the
          Fund, which takes an interest in every one on the stage, be he
          actor, singer, dancer, or workman.  We have spent more than
          $40,000 during the past year.  Charity covers a multitude of
          sins, but it also reveals a multitude of virtues.  At the
          opening of the former fair we had the assistance of Edwin Booth
          and Joseph Jefferson.  In their place we have to-day that
          American institution and apostle of wide humanity--Mark Twain."

As Mr. Frohman has said, charity reveals a multitude of virtues. This is true, and it is to
be proved here before the week is over. Mr. Frohman has told you something of the object and
something of the character of the work. He told me he would do this--and he has kept his word!
I had expected to hear of it through the newspapers. I wouldn't trust anything between Frohman
and the newspapers--except when it's a case of charity!

You should all remember that the actor has been your benefactor many and many a year. When
you have been weary and downcast he has lifted your heart out of gloom and given you a fresh
impulse. You are all under obligation to him. This is your opportunity to be his benefactor--to
help provide for him in his old age and when he suffers from infirmities.

At this fair no one is to be persecuted to buy. If you offer a twenty-dollar bill in payment
for a purchase of $1 you will receive $19 in change. There is to be no robbery here. There
is to be no creed here--no religion except charity. We want to raise $250,000--and that is
a great task to attempt.

The President has set the fair in motion by pressing the button in Washington. Now your good
wishes are to be transmuted into cash.

By virtue of the authority in me vested I declare the fair open. I call the ball game. Let
the transmuting begin!

RUSSIAN REPUBLIC

The American auxiliary movement to aid the cause of freedom in Russia was launched on the evening
of April 11, 1906, at the Club A house, 3 Fifth Avenue, with Mr. Clemens and Maxim Gorky as
the principal spokesmen. Mr. Clemens made an introductory address, presenting Mr. Gorky.

If we can build a Russian republic to give to the persecuted people of the Tsar's domain the
same measure of freedom that we enjoy, let us go ahead and do it. We need not discuss the methods
by which that purpose is to be attained. Let us hope that fighting will be postponed or averted
for a while, but if it must come--

I am most emphatically in sympathy with the movement, now on foot in Russia, to make that country
free. I am certain that it will be successful, as it deserves to be. Any such movement should
have and deserves our earnest and unanimous co-operation, and such a petition for funds as
has been explained by Mr. Hunter, with its just and powerful meaning, should have the utmost
support of each and every one of us. Anybody whose ancestors were in this country when we were
trying to free ourselves from oppression, must sympathize with those who now are trying to
do the same thing in Russia.

The parallel I have just drawn only goes to show that it makes no difference whether the oppression
is bitter or not; men with red, warm blood in their veins will not endure it, but will seek
to cast it off. If we keep our hearts in this matter Russia will be free.

RUSSIAN SUFFERERS

          On December 18, 1905, an entertainment was given at the Casino
          for the benefit of the Russian sufferers.  After the
          performance Mr. Clemens spoke.

LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,--It seems a sort of cruelty to inflict upon an audience like this our
rude English tongue, after we have heard that divine speech flowing in that lucid Gallic tongue.

It has always been a marvel to me--that French language; it has always been a puzzle to me.
How beautiful that language is. How expressive it seems to be. How full of grace it is.

And when it comes from lips like those, how eloquent and how liquid it is. And, oh, I am always
deceived--I always think I am going to understand it.

Oh, it is such a delight to me, such a delight to me, to meet Madame Bernhardt, and laugh hand
to hand and heart to heart with her.

I have seen her play, as we all have, and oh, that is divine; but I have always wanted to know
Madame Bernhardt herself--her fiery self. I have wanted to know that beautiful character.

Why, she is the youngest person I ever saw, except myself--for I always feel young when I come
in the presence of young people.

I have a pleasant recollection of an incident so many years ago--when Madame Bernhardt came
to Hartford, where I lived, and she was going to play and the tickets were three dollars, and
there were two lovely women--a widow and her daughter--neighbors of ours, highly cultivated
ladies they were; their tastes were fine and elevated, but they were very poor, and they said
"Well, we must not spend six dollars on a pleasure of the mind, a pleasure of the intellect;
we must spend it, if it must go at all, to furnish to somebody bread to eat."

And so they sorrowed over the fact that they had to give up that great pleasure of seeing Madame
Bernhardt, but there were two neighbors equally highly cultivated and who could not afford
bread, and those good-hearted Joneses sent that six dollars--deprived themselves of it--and
sent it to those poor Smiths to buy bread with. And those Smiths took it and bought tickets
with it to see Madame Bernhardt.

Oh yes, some people have tastes and intelligence also.

Now, I was going to make a speech--I supposed I was, but I am not. It is late, late; and so
I am going to tell a story; and there is this advantage about a story, anyway, that whatever
moral or valuable thing you put into a speech, why, it gets diffused among those involuted
sentences and possibly your audience goes away without finding out what that valuable thing
was that you were trying to confer upon it; but, dear me, you put the same jewel into a story
and it becomes the keystone of that story, and you are bound to get it--it flashes, it flames,
it is the jewel in the toad's head--you don't overlook that.

Now, if I am going to talk on such a subject as, for instance, the lost opportunity--oh, the
lost opportunity. Anybody in this house who has reached the turn of life--sixty, or seventy,
or even fifty, or along there--when he goes back along his history, there he finds it mile-stoned
all the way with the lost opportunity, and you know how pathetic that is.

You younger ones cannot know the full pathos that lies in those words--the lost opportunity;
but anybody who is old, who has really lived and felt this life, he knows the pathos of the
lost opportunity.

Now, I will tell you a story whose moral is that, whose lesson is that, whose lament is that.

I was in a village which is a suburb of New Bedford several years ago--well, New Bedford is
a suburb of Fair Haven, or perhaps it is the other way; in any case, it took both of those
towns to make a great centre of the great whaling industry of the first half of the nineteenth
century, and I was up there at Fair Haven some years ago with a friend of mine.

There was a dedication of a great town-hall, a public building, and we were there in the afternoon.
This great building was filled, like this great theatre, with rejoicing villagers, and my friend
and I started down the centre aisle. He saw a man standing in that aisle, and he said "Now,
look at that bronzed veteran--at that mahogany-faced man. Now, tell me, do you see anything
about that man's face that is emotional? Do you see anything about it that suggests that inside
that man anywhere there are fires that can be started? Would you ever imagine that that is
a human volcano?"

"Why, no," I said, "I would not. He looks like a wooden Indian in front of a cigar store."

"Very well," said my friend, "I will show you that there is emotion even in that unpromising
place. I will just go to that man and I will just mention in the most casual way an incident
in his life. That man is getting along toward ninety years old. He is past eighty. I will mention
an incident of fifty or sixty years ago. Now, just watch the effect, and it will be so casual
that if you don't watch you won't know when I do say that thing--but you just watch the effect."

He went on down there and accosted this antiquity, and made a remark or two. I could not catch
up. They were so casual I could not recognize which one it was that touched that bottom, for
in an instant that old man was literally in eruption and was filling the whole place with profanity
of the most exquisite kind. You never heard such accomplished profanity. I never heard it also
delivered with such eloquence.

I never enjoyed profanity as I enjoyed it then--more than if I had been uttering it myself.
There is nothing like listening to an artist--all his passions passing away in lava, smoke,
thunder, lightning, and earthquake.

Then this friend said to me: "Now, I will tell you about that. About sixty years ago that man
was a young fellow of twenty-three, and had just come home from a three years' whaling voyage.
He came into that village of his, happy and proud because now, instead of being chief mate,
he was going to be master of a whaleship, and he was proud and happy about it.

"Then he found that there had been a kind of a cold frost come upon that town and the whole
region roundabout; for while he had been away the Father Mathew temperance excitement had come
upon the whole region. Therefore, everybody had taken the pledge; there wasn't anybody for
miles and miles around that had not taken the pledge.

"So you can see what a solitude it was to this young man, who was fond of his grog. And he
was just an outcast, because when they found he would not join Father Mathew's Society they
ostracized him, and he went about that town three weeks, day and night, in utter loneliness--the
only human being in the whole place who ever took grog, and he had to take it privately.

"If you don't know what it is to be ostracized, to be shunned by your fellow-man, may you never
know it. Then he recognized that there was something more valuable in this life than grog,
and that is the fellowship of your fellow-man. And at last he gave it up, and at nine o'clock
one night he went down to the Father Mathew Temperance Society, and with a broken heart he
said: 'Put my name down for membership in this society.'

"And then he went away crying, and at earliest dawn the next morning they came for him and
routed him out, and they said that new ship of his was ready to sail on a three years' voyage.
In a minute he was on board that ship and gone.

"And he said--well, he was not out of sight of that town till he began to repent, but he had
made up his mind that he would not take a drink, and so that whole voyage of three years was
a three years' agony to that man because he saw all the time the mistake he had made.

"He felt it all through; he had constant reminders of it, because the crew would pass him with
their grog, come out on the deck and take it, and there was the torturous Smell of it.

"He went through the whole, three years of suffering, and at last coming into port it was snowy,
it was cold, he was stamping through the snow two feet deep on the deck and longing to get
home, and there was his crew torturing him to the last minute with hot grog, but at last he
had his reward. He really did get to shore at fast, and jumped and ran and bought a jug and
rushed to the society's office, and said to the secretary:

"'Take my name off your membership books, and do it right away! I have got a three years' thirst
on.'

"And the secretary said: 'It is not necessary. You were blackballed!'"

WATTERSON AND TWAIN AS REBELS

          ADDRESS AT THE CELEBRATION OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN'S 92ND BIRTHDAY
          ANNIVERSARY, CARNEGIE HALL, FEBRUARY 11, 1901, TO RAISE FUNDS
          FOR THE LINCOLN MEMORIAL UNIVERSITY AT CUMBERLAND GAP, TENN.

LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,--The remainder of my duties as presiding chairman here this evening are
but two--only two. One of them is easy, and the other difficult. That is to say, I must introduce
the orator, and then keep still and give him a chance. The name of Henry Watterson carries
with it its own explanation. It is like an electric light on top of Madison Square Garden;
you touch the button and the light flashes up out of the darkness. You mention the name of
Henry Watterson, and your minds are at once illuminated with the splendid radiance of his fame
and achievements. A journalist, a soldier, an orator, a statesman, a rebel. Yes, he was a rebel;
and, better still, now he is a reconstructed rebel.

It is a curious circumstance, a circumstance brought about without any collusion or prearrangement,
that he and I, both of whom were rebels related by blood to each other, should be brought here
together this evening bearing a tribute in our hands and bowing our heads in reverence to that
noble soul who for three years we tried to destroy. I don't know as the fact has ever been
mentioned before, but it is a fact, nevertheless. Colonel Watterson and I were both rebels,
and we are blood relations. I was a second lieutenant in a Confederate company for a while--oh,
I could have stayed on if I had wanted to. I made myself felt, I left tracks all around the
country. I could have stayed on, but it was such weather. I never saw such weather to be out-of-doors
in, in all my life.

The Colonel commanded a regiment, and did his part, I suppose, to destroy the Union. He did
not succeed, yet if he had obeyed me he would have done so. I had a plan, and I fully intended
to drive General Grant into the Pacific Ocean--if I could get transportation. I told Colonel
Watterson about it. I told him what he had to do. What I wanted him to do was to surround the
Eastern army and wait until I came up. But he was insubordinate; he stuck on some quibble of
military etiquette about a second lieutenant giving orders to a colonel or something like that.
And what was the consequence? The Union was preserved. This is the first time I believe that
that secret has ever been revealed.

No one outside of the family circle, I think, knew it before; but there the facts are. Watterson
saved the Union; yes, he saved the Union. And yet there he sits, and not a step has been taken
or a movement made toward granting him a pension. That is the way things are done. It is a
case where some blushing ought to be done. You ought to blush, and I ought to blush, and he--well,
he's a little out of practice now.

ROBERT FULTON FUND

          ADDRESS MADE ON THE EVENING OF APRIL 19, 1906

          Mr. Clemens had been asked to address the association by Gen.
          Frederick D. Grant, president.  He was offered a fee of $1,000,
          but refused it, saying:

          "I shall be glad to do it, but I must stipulate that you keep
          the $1,000, and add it to the Memorial Fund as my contribution
          to erect a monument in New York to the memory of the man who
          applied steam to navigation."

          At this meeting Mr. Clemens made this formal announcement from
          the platform:

          "This is my last appearance on the paid platform.  I shall not
          retire from the gratis platform until I am buried, and courtesy
          will compel me to keep still and not disturb the others.  Now,
          since I must, I shall say good-bye.  I see many faces in this
          audience well known to me.  They are all my friends, and I feel
          that those I don't know are my friends, too.  I wish to
          consider that you represent the nation, and  that in saying
          good-bye to you I am saying good-bye to the nation.  In the
          great name of humanity, let me say this final word: I offer an
          appeal in behalf of that vast, pathetic multitude of fathers,
          mothers, and helpless little children.  They were sheltered and
          happy two days ago.  Now they are wandering, forlorn, hopeless,
          and homeless, the victims of a great disaster.  So I beg of
          you, I beg of you, to open your hearts and open your purses and
          remember San Francisco, the smitten city."

I wish to deliver a historical address. I've been studying the history of---er--a--let me see--a
[then he stopped in confusion, and walked over to Gen. Fred D. Grant, who sat at the head of
the platform. He leaned over an a whisper, and then returned to the front of the stage and
continued]. Oh yes! I've been studying Robert Fulton. I've been studying a biographical sketch
of Robert Fulton, the inventor of--er--a--let's see--ah yes, the inventor of the electric telegraph
and the Morse sewing--machine. Also, I understand he invented the air--diria--pshaw! I have
it at last--the dirigible balloon. Yes, the dirigible--but it is a difficult word, and I don't
see why anybody should marry a couple of words like that when they don't want to be married
at all and are likely to quarrel with each other all the time. I should put that couple of
words under the ban of the United States Supreme Court, under its decision of a few days ago,
and take 'em out and drown 'em.

I used to know Fulton. It used to do me good to see him dashing through the town on a wild broncho.

And Fulton was born in---er--a--Well, it doesn't make much difference where he was born, does
it? I remember a man who came to interview me once, to get a sketch of my life. I consulted
with a friend--a practical man--before he came, to know how I should treat him.

"Whenever you give the interviewer a fact," he said, "give him another fact that will contradict
it. Then he'll go away with a jumble that he can't use at all. Be gentle, be sweet, smile like
an idiot--just be natural." That's what my friend told me to do, and I did it.

"Where were you born?" asked the interviewer.

"Well-er-a," I began, "I was born in Alabama, or Alaska, or the Sandwich Islands; I don't know
where, but right around there somewhere. And you had better put it down before you forget it."

"But you weren't born in all those places," he said.

"Well, I've offered you three places. Take your choice. They're all at the same price."

"How old are you?" he asked.

"I shall be nineteen in June," I said.

"Why, there's such a discrepancy between your age and your looks," he said.

"Oh, that's nothing," I said, "I was born discrepantly."

Then we got to talking about my brother Samuel, and he told me my explanations were confusing.

"I suppose he is dead," I said. "Some said that he was dead and some said that he wasn't."

"Did you bury him without knowing whether he was dead or not?" asked the reporter.

"There was a mystery," said I. "We were twins, and one day when we were two weeks old--that
is, he was one week old, and I was one week old--we got mixed up in the bath-tub, and one of
us drowned. We never could tell which. One of us had a strawberry birthmark on the back of
his hand. There it is on my hand. This is the one that was drowned. There's no doubt about it.

"Where's the mystery?" he said.

"Why, don't you see how stupid it was to bury the wrong twin?" I answered. I didn't explain
it any more because he said the explanation confused him. To me it is perfectly plain.

But, to get back to Fulton. I'm going along like an old man I used to know who used to start
to tell a story about his grandfather. He had an awfully retentive memory, and he never finished
the story, because he switched off into something else. He used to tell about how his grandfather
one day went into a pasture, where there was a ram. The old man dropped a silver dime in the
grass, and stooped over to pick it up. The ram was observing him, and took the old man's action
as an invitation.

Just as he was going to finish about the ram this friend of mine would recall that his grandfather
had a niece who had a glass eye. She used to loan that glass eye to another lady friend, who
used it when she received company. The eye didn't fit the friend's face, and it was loose.
And whenever she winked it would turn aver.

Then he got on the subject of accidents, and he would tell a story about how he believed accidents
never happened.

"There was an Irishman coming down a ladder with a hod of bricks," he said, "and a Dutchman
was standing on the ground below. The Irishman fell on the Dutchman and killed him. Accident?
Never! If the Dutchman hadn't been there the Irishman would have been killed. Why didn't the
Irishman fall on a dog which was next, to the Dutchman? Because the dog would have seen him
coming."

Then he'd get off from the Dutchman to an uncle named Reginald Wilson. Reginald went into a
carpet factory one day, and got twisted into the machinery's belt. He went excursioning around
the factory until he was properly distributed and was woven into sixty-nine yards of the best
three-ply carpet. His wife bought the carpet, and then she erected a monument to his memory.
It read:

                          Sacred to the memory
                                   of
             sixty-nine yards of the best three-ply carpet
                  containing the mortal remainders of

                            REGINALD WILSON

                        Go thou and do likewise

And so an he would ramble about telling the story of his grandfather until we never were told
whether he found the ten-cent piece or whether something else happened.

FULTON DAY, JAMESTOWN

          ADDRESS DELIVERED SEPTEMBER 23, 1907

          Lieutenant-Governor Ellyson, of Virginia, in introducing Mr.
          Clemens, said:

          "The people have come here to bring a tribute of affectionate
          recollection for the man who has contributed so much to the
          progress of the world and the happiness of mankind."  As Mr.
          Clemens came down to the platform the applause became louder
          and louder, until Mr. Clemens held out his hand for silence.
          It was a great triumph, and it was almost a minute after the
          applause ceased before Mr. Clemens could speak.  He attempted
          it once, and when the audience noticed his emotion, it cheered
          again loudly.

LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,--I am but human, and when you, give me a reception like that I am obliged
to wait a little while I get my voice. When you appeal to my head, I don't feel it; but when
you appeal to my heart, I do feel it.

We are here to celebrate one of the greatest events of American history, and not only in American
history, but in the world's history.

Indeed it was--the application of steam by Robert Fulton.

It was a world event--there are not many of them. It is peculiarly an American event, that
is true, but the influence was very broad in effect. We should regard this day as a very great
American holiday. We have not many that are exclusively American holidays. We have the Fourth
of July, which we regard as an American holiday, but it is nothing of the kind. I am waiting
for a dissenting voice. All great efforts that led up to the Fourth of July were made, not
by Americans, but by English residents of America, subjects of the King of England.

They fought all the fighting that was done, they shed and spilt all the blood that was spilt,
in securing to us the invaluable liberties which are incorporated in the Declaration of Independence;
but they were not Americans. They signed the Declaration of Independence; no American's name
is signed to that document at all. There never was an American such as you and I are until
after the Revolution, when it had all been fought out and liberty secured, after the adoption
of the Constitution, and the recognition of the Independence of America by all powers.

While we revere the Fourth of July--and let us always revere it, and the liberties it conferred
upon us--yet it was not an American event, a great American day.

It was an American who applied that steam successfully. There are not a great many world events,
and we have our full share. The telegraph, telephone, and the application of steam to navigation--these
are great American events.

To-day I have been requested, or I have requested myself, not to confine myself to furnishing
you with information, but to remind you of things, and to introduce one of the nation's celebrants.

Admiral Harrington here is going to tell you all that I have left untold. I am going to tell
you all that I know, and then he will follow up with such rags and remnants as he can find,
and tell you what he knows.

No doubt you have heard a great deal about Robert Fulton and the influences that have grown
from his invention, but the little steamboat is suffering neglect.

You probably do not know a great deal about that boat. It was the most important steamboat
in the world. I was there and saw it. Admiral Harrington was there at the time. It need not
surprise you, for he is not as old as he looks. That little boat was interesting in every way.
The size of it. The boat was one [consults Admiral], he said ten feet long. The breadth of
that boat [consults Admiral], two hundred feet. You see, the first and most important detail
is the length, then the breadth, and then the depth; the depth of that boat was [consults again]--the
Admiral says it was a flat boat. Then her tonnage--you know nothing about a boat until you
know two more things: her speed and her tonnage. We know the speed she made. She made four
miles---and sometimes five miles. It was on her initial trip, on, August 11, 1807, that she
made her initial trip, when she went from [consults Admiral] Jersey City--to Chicago. That's
right. She went by way of Albany. Now comes the tonnage of that boat. Tonnage of a boat means
the amount of displacement; displacement means the amount of water a vessel can shove in a
day. The tonnage of man is estimated by the amount of whiskey he can displace in a day.

Robert Fulton named the 'Clermont' in honor of his bride, that is, Clermont was the name of
the county-seat.

I feel that it surprises you that I know so much. In my remarks of welcome of Admiral Harrington
I am not going to give him compliments. Compliments always embarrass a man. You do not know
anything to say. It does not inspire you with words. There is nothing you can say in answer
to a compliment. I have been complimented myself a great many times, and they always embarrass
me--I always feel that they have not said enough.

The Admiral and myself have held public office, and were associated together a great deal a
friendly way in the time of Pocahontas. That incident where Pocahontas saves the life of Smith
from her father, Powhatan's club, was gotten up by the Admiral and myself to advertise Jamestown.

At that time the Admiral and myself did not have the facilities of advertising that you have.

I have known Admiral Harrington in all kinds of situations--in public service, on the platform,
and in the chain-gang now and then--but it was a mistake. A case of mistaken identity. I do
not think it is at all a necessity to tell you Admiral Harrington's public history. You know
that it is in the histories. I am not here to tell you anything about his public life, but
to expose his private life.

I am something of a poet. When the great poet laureate, Tennyson, died, and I found that the
place was open, I tried to get it--but I did not get it. Anybody can write the first line of
a poem, but it is a very difficult task to make the second line rhyme with the first. When
I was down in Australia there were two towns named Johnswood and Par-am. I made this rhyme:

               "The people of Johnswood are pious and good;
               The people of Par-am they don't care a----."

I do not want to compliment Admiral Harrington, but as long as such men as he devote their
lives to the public service the credit of the country will never cease. I will say that the
same high qualities, the same moral and intellectual attainments, the same graciousness of
manner, of conduct, of observation, and expression have caused Admiral Harrington to be mistaken
for me--and I have been mistaken for him.

A mutual compliment can go no further, and I now have the honor and privilege of introducing
to you Admiral Harrington.

LOTOS CLUB DINNER IN HONOR OF MARK TWAIN

          ADDRESS AT THE FIRST FORMAL DINNER IN THE NEW CLUB-HOUSE,
          NOVEMBER 11, 1893

          In introducing the guest of the evening, Mr. Lawrence said:

          "To-night the old faces appear once more amid new surroundings.
          The place where last we met about the table has vanished, and
          to-night we have our first Lotos dinner in a home that is all
          our own.  It is peculiarly fitting that the board should now be
          spread in honor of one who has been a member of the club for
          full a score of years, and it is a happy augury for the future
          that our fellow-member whom we assemble to greet should be the
          bearer of a most distinguished name in the world of letters;
          for the Lotos Club is ever at its best when paying homage to
          genius in literature or in art.  Is there a civilized being who
          has not heard the name of Mark Twain?  We knew him long years
          ago, before he came out of the boundless West, brimful of wit
          and eloquence, with no reverence for anything, and went abroad
          to educate the untutored European in the subtleties of the
          American joke.  The world has looked on and applauded while he
          has broken many images.  He has led us in imagination all over
          the globe.  With him as our guide we have traversed alike the
          Mississippi and the Sea of Galilee.  At his bidding we have
          laughed at a thousand absurdities.  By a laborious process of
          reasoning he has convinced us that the Egyptian mummies are
          actually dead.  He has held us spellbound upon the plain at the
          foot of the great Sphinx, and we have joined him in weeping
          bitter tears at the tomb of Adam.  To-night we greet him in the
          flesh.  What name is there in literature that can be likened to
          his?  Perhaps some of the distinguished gentlemen about this
          table can tell us, but I know of none.  Himself his only
          parallel!"

MR. PRESIDENT, GENTLEMEN, AND MY FELLOW-MEMBERS OF THE LOTOS CLUB,--I have seldom in my lifetime
listened to compliments so felicitously phrased or so well deserved. I return thanks for them
from a full heart and an appreciative spirit, and I will say this in self-defence: While I
am charged with having no reverence for anything, I wish to say that I have reverence for the
man who can utter such truths, and I also have a deep reverence and a sincere one for a club
that can do such justice to me. To be the chief guest of such a club is something to be envied,
and if I read your countenances rightly I am envied. I am glad to see this club in such palatial
quarters. I remember it twenty years ago when it was housed in a stable.

Now when I was studying for the ministry there were two or three things that struck my attention
particularly. At the first banquet mentioned in history that other prodigal son who came back
from his travels was invited to stand up and have his say. They were all there, his brethren,
David and Goliath, and--er, and if he had had such experience as I have had he would have waited
until those other people got through talking. He got up and testified to all his failings.
Now if he had waited before telling all about his riotous living until the others had spoken
he might not have given himself away as he did, and I think that I would give myself away if
I should go on. I think I'd better wait until the others hand in their testimony; then if it
is necessary for me to make an explanation, I will get up and explain, and if I cannot do that,
I'll deny it happened.

          Later in the evening Mr. Clemens made another speech, replying
          to a fire of short speeches by Charles Dudley Warner, Charles
          A. Dana, Seth Low, General Porter, and many others, each
          welcoming the guest of honor.

I don't see that I have a great deal to explain. I got off very well, considering the opportunities
that these other fellows had. I don't see that Mr. Low said anything against me, and neither
did Mr. Dana. However, I will say that I never heard so many lies told in one evening as were
told by Mr. McKelway--and I consider myself very capable; but even in his case, when he got
through, I was gratified by finding how much he hadn't found out. By accident he missed the
very things that I didn't want to have said, and now, gentlemen, about Americanism.

I have been on the continent of Europe for two and a half years. I have met many Americans
there, some sojourning for a short time only, others making protracted stays, and it has been
very gratifying to me to find that nearly all preserved their Americanism. I have found they
all like to see the Flag fly, and that their hearts rise when they see the Stars and Stripes.
I met only one lady who had forgotten the land of her birth and glorified monarchical institutions.

I think it is a great thing to say that in two and a half years I met only one person who had
fallen a victim to the shams--I think we may call them shams--of nobilities and of heredities.
She was entirely lost in them. After I had listened to her for a long time, I said to her:
"At least you must admit that we have one merit. We are not like the Chinese, who refuse to
allow their citizens who are tired of the country to leave it. Thank God, we don't!"

COPYRIGHT

          With Mr. Howells, Edward Everett Hale, Thomas Nelson Page, and
          a number of other authors, Mr. Clemens appeared before the
          committee December 6, 1906.  The new Copyright Bill
          contemplated an author's copyright for the term of his life and
          for fifty years thereafter, applying also for the benefit of
          artists, musicians, and others, but the authors did most of the
          talking.  F. D. Millet made a speech for the artists, and John
          Philip Sousa for the musicians.

          Mr. Clemens was the last speaker of the day, and its chief
          feature.  He made a speech, the serious parts of which created
          a strong impression, and the humorous parts set the Senators
          and Representatives in roars of laughter.

I have read this bill. At least I have read such portions as I could understand. Nobody but
a practised legislator can read the bill and thoroughly understand it, and I am not a practised
legislator.

I am interested particularly and especially in the part of the bill which concerns my trade.
I like that extension of copyright life to the author's life and fifty years afterward. I think
that would satisfy any reasonable author, because it would take care of his children. Let the
grandchildren take care of themselves. That would take care of my daughters, and after that
I am not particular. I shall then have long been out of this struggle, independent of it, indifferent
to it.

It isn't objectionable to me that all the trades and professions in the United States are protected
by the bill. I like that. They are all important and worthy, and if we can take care of them
under the Copyright law I should like to see it done. I should like to see oyster culture added,
and anything else.

I am aware that copyright must have a limit, because that is required by the Constitution of
the United States, which sets aside the earlier Constitution, which we call the decalogue.
The decalogue says you shall not take away from any man his profit. I don't like to be obliged
to use the harsh term. What the decalogue really says is, "Thou shaft not steal," but I am
trying to use more polite language.

The laws of England and America do take it away, do select but one class, the people who create
the literature of the land. They always talk handsomely about the literature of the land, always
what a fine, great, monumental thing a great literature is, and in the midst of their enthusiasm
they turn around and do what they can to discourage it.

I know we must have a limit, but forty-two years is too much of a limit. I am quite unable
to guess why there should be a limit at all to the possession of the product of a man's labor.
There is no limit to real estate.

Doctor Bale has suggested that a man might just as well, after discovering a coal-mine and
working it forty-two years, have the Government step in and take it away.

What is the excuse? It is that the author who produced that book has had the profit of it long
enough, and therefore the Government takes a profit which does not belong to it and generously
gives it to the 88,000,000 of people. But it doesn't do anything of the kind. It merely takes
the author's property, takes his children's bread, and gives the publisher double profit. He
goes on publishing the book and as many of his confederates as choose to go into the conspiracy
do so, and they rear families in affluence.

And they continue the enjoyment of those ill-gotten gains generation after generation forever,
for they never die. In a few weeks or months or years I shall be out of it, I hope under a
monument. I hope I shall not be entirely forgotten, and I shall subscribe to the monument myself.
But I shall not be caring what happens if there are fifty years left of my copyright. My copyright
produces annually a good deal more than I can use, but my children can use it. I can get along;
I know a lot of trades. But that goes to my daughters, who can't get along as well as I can
because I have carefully raised them as young ladies, who don't know anything and can't do
anything. I hope Congress will extend to them the charity which they have failed to get from me.

