Set up, and published March, 1908.

BIOLOGY

I must at the outset remark that among the many sciences that are occupied with the study of
the living world there is no one that may properly lay exclusive claim to the name of Biology.
The word does not, in fact, denote any particular science but is a generic term applied to
a large group of biological sciences all of which alike are concerned with the phenomena of
life. To present in a single address, even in rudimentary outline, the specific results of
these sciences is obviously an impossible task, and one that I have no intention of attempting.
I shall offer no more than a kind of preface or introduction to those who will speak after
me on the biological sciences of physiology, botany and zoology; and I shall confine it to
what seem to me the most essential and characteristic of the general problems towards which
all lines of biological inquiry must sooner or later converge.

It is the general aim of the biological sciences to learn something of the order of nature
in the living world. Perhaps it is not amiss to remark that the biologist may not hope to solve
the ultimate problems of life any more than the chemist and physicist may hope to penetrate
the final mysteries of existence in the non-living world. What he can do is to observe, compare
and experiment with phenomena, to resolve more complex phenomena into simpler components, and
to this extent, as he says, to "explain" them; but he knows in advance that his explanations
will never be in the full sense of the word final or complete. Investigation can do no more
than push forward the limits of knowledge.

The task of the biologist is a double one. His more immediate effort is to inquire into the
nature of the existing organism, to ascertain in what measure the complex phenomena of life
as they now appear are capable of resolution into simpler factors or components, and to determine
as far as he can what is the relation of these factors to other natural phenomena. It is often
practically convenient to consider the organism as presenting two different aspects--a structural
or morphological one, and a functional or physiological--and biologists often call themselves
accordingly morphologists or physiologists. Morphological investigation has in the past largely
followed the method of observation and comparison, physiological investigation that of experiment;
but it is one of the best signs of progress that in recent years the fact has come clearly
into view that morphology and physiology are really inseparable, and in consequence the distinctions
between them, in respect both to subject matter and to method, have largely disappeared in
a greater community of aim. Morphology and physiology alike were profoundly transformed by
the introduction into biological studies of the genetic or historical point of view by Darwin,
who did more than any other to establish the fact, suspected by many earlier naturalists, that
existing vital phenomena are the outcome of a definite process of evolution; and it was he
who first fully brought home to us how defective and one-sided is our view of the organism
so long as we do not consider it as a product of the past. It is the second and perhaps greater
task of the biologist to study the organism from the historical point of view, considering
it as the product of a continuous process of evolution that has been in operation since life
began. In its widest scope this genetic inquiry involves not only the evolution of higher forms
from lower ones, but also the still larger question of the primordial relation of living things
to the non-living world. Here is involved the possibility so strikingly expressed many years
ago by Tyndall in that eloquent passage in the Belfast address, where he declared himself driven
by an intellectual necessity to cross the boundary line of the experimental evidence and to
discern in non-living matter, as he said, the promise and potency of every form and quality
of terrestrial life. This intellectual necessity was created by a conviction of the continuity
and consistency of natural phenomena, which is almost inseparable from the scientific attitude
towards nature. But Tyndall's words stood after all for a confession of faith, not for a statement
of fact; and they soared far above the terra firma of the actual evidence. At the present day
we too may find ourselves logically driven to the view that living things first arose as a
product of non-living matter. We must fully recognize the extraordinary progress that has been
made by the chemist in the artificial synthesis of compounds formerly known only as the direct
products of living protoplasm. But it must also be admitted that we are still wholly without
evidence of the origin of any living thing, at any period of the earth's history, save from
some other living thing; and after more than two centuries Redi's aphorism omne vivum e vivo
retains to-day its full force. It is my impression therefore that the time has not yet come
when hypotheses regarding a different origin of life can be considered as practically useful.

If I have the temerity to ask your attention to the fundamental problem towards which all lines
of biological inquiry sooner or later lead us it is not with the delusion that I can contribute
anything new to the prolonged discussions and controversies to which it has given rise. I desire
only to indicate in what way it affects the practical efforts of biologists to gain a better
understanding of the living organism, whether regarded as a group of existing phenomena or
as a product of the evolutionary process; and I shall speak of it, not in any abstract or speculative
way, but from the standpoint of the working naturalist. The problem of which I speak is that
of organic mechanism and its relation to that of organic adaptation. How in general are the
phenomena of life related to those of the non-living world? How far can we profitably employ
the hypothesis that the living body is essentially an automaton or machine, a configuration
of material particles, which, like an engine or a piece of clockwork, owes its mode of operation
to its physical and chemical construction? It is not open to doubt that the living body is
a machine. It is a complex chemical engine that applies the energy of the food-stuffs to the
performance of the work of life. But is it something more than a machine? If we may imagine
the physico-chemical analysis of the body to be carried through to the very end, may we expect
to find at last an unknown something that transcends such analysis and is neither a form of
physical energy nor anything given in the physical or chemical configuration of the body? Shall
we find anything corresponding to the usual popular conception--which was also along the view
of physiologists--that the body is "animated" by a specific "vital principle," or "vital force,"
a dominating "archæus" that exists only in the realm of organic nature? If such a principle
exists, then the mechanistic hypothesis fails and the fundamental problem of biology becomes
a problem sui generis.

In its bearing on man's place in nature this question is one of the most momentous with which
natural science has to deal, and it has occupied the attention of thinking men in every age.
I cannot trace its history, but it will be worth our while to place side by side the words
of three of the great leaders of modern scientific and philosophic thought. The saying has
been attributed to Descartes, "Give me matter and I will construct the world"--meaning by this
the living world as well as the non-living; but Descartes specifically excepted the human mind.
I do not know whether the great French philosopher actually used these particular words, but
they express the essence of the mechanistic hypothesis that he adopted. Such an insight we
must absolutely deny to man." Still, in another place Kant admitted that the facts of comparative
anatomy give us "a ray of hope, however faint, that something may be accomplished by the aid
of the principle of the mechanism of nature, without which there can be no science in general."

Do not expect me to decide where such learned doctors disagree; but I will at this point venture
on one comment which may sound the key-note of this address. Perhaps we shall find that in
the long run and in the large sense Kant was right; but it is certain that to-day we know very
much more about the formation of the living body, whether a blade of grass or a man, than did
the naturalists of Kant's time; and for better or for worse the human mind seems to be so constituted
that it will continue its efforts to explain such matters, however difficult they may seem
to be. But I return to our more specific inquiry with the remark that the history of physiology
in the past two hundred years has been the history of a progressive restriction of the notion
of a "vital force" or "vital principle" within narrower and narrower limits, until at present
it may seem to many physiologists that no room for it remains within the limits of our biological
philosophy. One after another the vital activities have been shown to be in greater or less
degree explicable or comprehensible considered as physico-chemical operations of various degrees
of complexity. Every physiologist will maintain that we cannot name one of these activities,
not even thought, that is not carried on by a physical mechanism. He will maintain further
that in most cases the vital actions are not merely accompanied by physico-chemical operations
but actually consist of them; and he may go so far as definitely to maintain that we have no
evidence that life itself can be regarded as anything more than their sum total. He is able
to bring forward cogent evidence that all modes of vital activity are carried on by means of
energy that is set free in protoplasm or its products by means of definite chemical processes
collectively known as metabolism. When the matter is reduced to its lowest terms, life, as
thus viewed, seems to have its root in chemical change; and we can understand how an eminent
German physiologist offers us a definition or characterization of life that runs: "The life-process
consists in the metabolism of proteids." I ask your particular attention to this definition
since I now wish to contrast with it another and very different one.

I shall introduce it to your attention by asking a very simple question. We may admit that
digestion, for example, is a purely chemical operation, and one that may be exactly imitated
outside the living body in a glass flask. My question is, how does it come to pass that an
animal has a stomach?--and, pursuing the inquiry, how does it happen that the human stomach
is practically incapable of digesting cellulose, while the stomachs of some lower animals,
such as the goat, readily digest this substance? The earlier naturalists, such as Linnaeus,
Cuvier or Agassiz, were ready with a reply which seemed so simple, adequate and final that
the plodding modern naturalist cannot repress a feeling of envy. In their view plants and animals
are made as they were originally created, each according to its kind. The biologist of to-day
views the matter differently; and I shall give his answer in the form in which I now and then
make it to a student who may chance to ask why an insect has six legs and a spider eight, or
why a yellowbird is yellow and a bluebird blue. The answer is: "For the same reason that the
elephant has a trunk." I trust that a certain rugged pedagogical virtue in this reply may atone
for its lack of elegance. The elephant has a trunk, as the insect has six legs, for the reason
that such is the specific nature of the animal; and we may assert with a degree of probability
that amounts to practical certainty that this specific nature is the outcome of a definite
evolutionary process, the nature and causes of which it is our tremendous task to determine
to such extent as we may be able. But this does not yet touch the most essential side of the
problem. What is most significant is that the clumsy, short-necked elephant has been endowed--"by
nature," as we say--with precisely such an organ, the trunk, as he needs to compensate for
his lack of flexibility and agility in other respects. If we are asked why the elephant has
a trunk, we must answer because the animal needs it. But does such a reply in itself explain
the fact? Evidently not. The question which science must seek to answer, is how came the elephant
to have a trunk; and we do not properly answer it by saying that it has developed in the course
of evolution. It has been well said that even the most complete knowledge of the genealogy
of plants and animals would give us no more than an ancestral portrait-gallery. We must determine
the causes and conditions that have cooperated to produce this particular result if our answer
is to constitute a true scientific explanation. And evidently he who adopts the machine-theory
as a general interpretation of vital phenomena must make clear to us how the machine was built
before we can admit the validity of his theory, even in a single case. Our apparently simple
question as to why the animal has a stomach has thus revealed to us the full magnitude of the
task with which the mechanist is confronted; and it has brought us to that part of our problem
that is concerned with the nature and origin of organic adaptations. Without tarrying to attempt
a definition of adaptation I will only emphasize the fact that many of the great naturalists,
from Aristotle onward, have recognized the purposeful or design-like quality of vital phenomena
as their most essential and fundamental characteristic. Herbert Spencer defined life as the
continuous adjustment of internal relations to external relations. It is one of the best that
has been given, though I am not sure that Professor Brooks has not improved upon it when he
says that life is "response to the order of nature." This seems a long way from the definition
of Verworn, heretofore cited, as the "metabolism of proteids." To this Brooks opposes the telling
epigram: "The essence of life is not protoplasm but purpose."

Without attempting adequately to illustrate the nature of organic adaptations, I will direct
your attention to what seems to me one of their most striking features regarded from the mechanistic
position. This is the fact that adaptations so often run counter to direct or obvious mechanical
conditions. Nature is crammed with devices to protect and maintain the organism against the
stress of the environment. Some of these are given in the obvious structure of the organism,
such as the tendrils by means of which the climbing plant sustains itself against the action
of gravity or the winds, the protective shell of the snail, the protective colors and shapes
of animals, and the like. Any structural feature that is useful because of its construction
is a structural adaptation; and when such adaptations are given the mechanist has for the most
part a relatively easy task in his interpretation. He has a far more difficult knot to disentangle
in the case of the so-called functional adaptations, where the organism modifies its activities
(and often also its structure) in response to changed conditions. The nature of these phenomena
may be illustrated by a few examples so chosen as to form a progressive series. If a spot on
the skin be rubbed for some time the first result is a direct and obviously mechanical one;
the skin is worn away. But if the rubbing be continued long enough, and is not too severe,
an indirect effect is produced that is precisely the opposite of the initial direct one; the
skin is replaced, becomes thicker than before, and a callus is produced that protects the spot
from further injury. The healing of a wound involves a similar action. Again, remove one kidney
or one lung and the remaining one will in time enlarge to assume, as far as it is able, the
functions of both. If the leg of a salamander or a lobster be amputated, the wound not only
heals but a new leg is regenerated in place of that which has been lost. If a flatworm be cut
in two, the front piece grows out a new tail, the hind piece a new head, and two perfect worms
result. Finally, it has been found in certain cases, including animals as highly organized
as salamanders, that if the egg be separated into two parts at an early period of development
each part develops into a perfect embryo animal of half the usual size, and a pair of twins
results. In each of these cases the astonishing fact is that a mechanical injury sets up in
the organism a complicated adaptive response in the form of operations which in the end counteract
the initial mechanical effect. It is no doubt true that somewhat similar self-adjustments or
responses may be said to take place in certain non-living mechanical systems, such as the spinning
top or the gyroscope; but those that occur in the living body are of such general occurrence,
of such complexity and variety, and of so design-like a quality, that they may fairly be regarded
as among the most characteristic of the vital activities. It is precisely this characteristic
of many vital phenomena that renders their accurate analysis so difficult and complex a task;
and it is largely for this reason that the biological sciences, as a whole, still stand far
behind the physical sciences, both in precision and in completeness of analysis.

What is the actual working attitude of naturalists towards the general problem that I have
endeavored to outline? It would be a piece of presumption for me to speak for the body of working
biologists, and I will therefore speak for only one of them. It is my own conviction that whatever
be the difficulties that the mechanistic hypothesis has to face, it has established itself
as the most useful working hypothesis that we can at present employ. I do not mean to assert
that it is adequate, or even true. I believe only that we should make use of it as a working
program, because the history of biological research proves it to have been a more effective
and fruitful means of advancing knowledge than the vitalistic hypothesis. We should therefore
continue to employ it for this purpose until it is clearly shown to be untenable. Whether we
must in the end adopt it will depend on whether it proves the simplest hypothesis in the large
sense, the one most in harmony with our knowledge of nature in general. If such is the outcome,
we shall be bound by a deeply lying instinct that is almost a law of our intellectual being
to accept it, as we have accepted the Copernican system rather than the Ptolemaic. I believe
I am right in saying that the attitude I have indicated as a more or less personal one is also
that of the body of working biologists, though there are some conspicuous exceptions.

In endeavoring to illustrate how this question actually affects research I will offer two illustrative
cases, one of which may indicate the fruitfulness of the mechanistic conception in the analysis
of complex and apparently mysterious phenomena, the other the nature of the difficulties that
have in recent years led to attempts to re-establish the vitalistic view. The first example
is given by the so-called law or principle of Mendel in heredity. The principle revealed by
Mendel's wonderful discovery is not shown in all the phenomena of heredity and is probably
of more or less limited application. It possesses however a profound significance because it
gives almost a demonstration that a definite, and perhaps a relatively simple, mechanism must
lie behind the phenomena of heredity in general. Hereditary characters that conform to this
law undergo combinations, disassociations and recombinations which in certain way suggest those
that take place in chemical reactions; and like the latter they conform to definite quantitative
rules that are capable of arithmetical formulation. This analogy must not be pressed too far;
for chemical reactions are individually definite and fixed, while those of the hereditary characters
involve a fortuitous element of such a nature that the numerical result is not fixed or constant
in the individual case but follows the law of probability in the aggregate of individuals.
Nevertheless, it is possible, and has already become the custom, to designate the hereditary
organization by symbols or formulas that resemble those of the chemist in that they imply the
quantitative results of heredity that follow the union of compounds of known composition. Quantitative
prediction--not precisely accurate, but in accordance with the law of probability--has thus
become possible to the biological experimenter on heredity. I will give one example of such
a prediction made by Professor Cuénot in experimenting on the heredity of color in mice (see
the following table). The experiment extended through three generations. Of the four grandparents
three were pure white albinos, identical in outward appearance, but of different hereditary
capacity, while the fourth was a pure black mouse. The first pair of grandparents consisted
of an albino of gray ancestry, AG, and one of black ancestry, AB. The second pair consisted
of an albino of yellow ancestry, AY, and a black mouse, CB. The result of the first union,
AG x AB is to produce again pure white mice of the composition AGAB. The second union, AY x
CB is to produce mice that appear pure yellow, and have the formula AYCB. What, now, will be
the result of uniting the two forms thus produced--i.e. AGAB × AYCB? Cuénot's prediction was
that they should yield eight different kinds of mice, of which four should be white, two yellow,
one black and one gray. The actual aggregate result of such unions, repeatedly performed, compared
with the theoretic expectation, is shown in the foregoing table. As will be seen, the correspondence,
though close, is not absolutely exact, yet is near enough to prove the validity of the principle
on which the prediction was based, and we may be certain that had a much larger number of these
mice been reared the correspondence would have been still closer. I have purposely selected
a somewhat complicated example, and time will not admit of a full explanation of the manner
in which this particular result was reached. I will however attempt to give an indication of
the general Mendelian principle by means of which predictions of this kind are made. This principle
appears in its simplest form in the behavior of two contrasting characters of the same general
type--for instance two colors, such as gray and white in mice. If two animals, which show respectively
two such characters are bred together, only one of the characters (known as the "dominant")
appears in the offspring, while the other (known as the "recessive") disappears from view.
In the next generation, obtained by breeding these hybrids together, both characters appear
separately and in a definite ratio, there being in the long run three individuals that show
the dominant character to one that shows the recessive. Thus, in the case of gray and white
mice, the first cross is always gray, while the next generation includes three grays to one
white. This is the fundamental Mendelian ratio for a single pair of characters; and from it
may readily be deduced the more complicated combinations that appear when two or more pairs
of characters are considered together. Such combinations appear in definite series, the nature
of which may be worked out by a simple method of binomial expansion. By the use of this principle
astonishingly accurate numerical predictions may be made, even of rather complex combinations;
and furthermore, new combinations may be, and have been, artificially produced, the number,
character and hereditary capacity of which are known in advance. The fundamental ratio for
a single pair of characters is explained by a very simple assumption. When a dominant and a
recessive character are associated in a hybrid, the two must undergo in some sense a disjunction
or separation in the formation of the germ-cells of the hybrid. This takes place in a quite
definite way, exactly half the germ-cells in each sex receiving the potentiality of the dominant
character, the other half the potentiality of the recessive. This is roughly expressed by saying
that the germ-cells are no longer hybrid, like the body in which they arise, but bear one character
or the other; and although in a technical sense this is probably not precisely accurate, it
will sufficiently answer our purpose. If, now, it be assumed that fertilization takes place
fortuitously--that is that union is equally probable between germ-cells bearing the same character
and those bearing opposite characters,--the observed numerical ratio in the following generation
follows according to the law of probability. Thus is explained both the fortuitous element
that differentiates these cases from exact chemical combinations, and the definite numerical
relations that appear in the aggregate of individuals.

  Grandparents AG (white) AB (white)  AY (white) CB (black)
                |         |           |           |
                +---------+           +-----------+
                     |                      |
  Parents     AGAB (white)              AYCB (yellow)
                     |                      |
                     +----------------------+
                                |              Observed    Calculated
                             {AGAY}
                             {ABAY}     (White)    81         76
                             {AGAB}
   Offspring  ---------------{ABAB}
                             {
                             {AGCY}    (Yellow)    34         38
                             {ABCY}
                             {
                             {ABCB      (Black)    20         19
                             {AGCB       (Gray)    16         19
                                                  ----       ----
                                                  151        152

Now, the point that I desire to emphasize is that one or two very simple mechanistic assumptions
give a luminously clear explanation of the behavior of the hereditary characters according
to Mendel's law, and at one stroke bring order out of the chaos in which facts of this kind
at first sight seem to be. Not less significant is the fact that direct microscopical investigation
is actually revealing in the germ-cells a physical mechanism that seems adequate to explain
the disjunction of characters on which Mendel's law depends; and this mechanism probably gives
us also at least a key to the long standing riddle of the determination and heredity of sex.
These phenomena are therefore becoming intelligible from the mechanistic point of view. From
any other they appear as an insoluble enigma. When such progress as this is being made, have
we not a right to believe that we are employing a useful working hypothesis?

But let us now turn to a second example that will illustrate a class of phenomena which have
thus far almost wholly eluded all attempts to explain them. The one that I select is at present
one of the most enigmatical cases known, namely, the regeneration of the lens of the eye in
the tadpoles of salamanders. If the lens be removed from the eye of a young tadpole, the animal
proceeds to manufacture a new one to take its place, and the eye becomes as perfect as before.
That such a process should take place at all is remarkable enough; but from a technical point
of view this is not the extraordinary feature of the case. What fills the embryologist with
astonishment is the fact that the new lens is not formed in the same way or from the same material
as the old one. In the normal development of the tadpole from the egg, as in all other vertebrate
animals, the lens is formed from the outer skin or ectoderm of the head. In the replacement
of the lens after removal it arises from the cells of the iris, which form the edge of the
optic cup, and this originates in the embryo not from the outer skin but as an outgrowth from
the brain. As far as we can see, neither the animal itself nor any of its ancestors can have
had experience of such a process. How, then, can such a power have been acquired, and how does
it inhere in the structure of the organism? If the process of repair be due to some kind of
intelligent action, as some naturalists have supposed, why should not the higher animals and
man possess a similar useful capacity? To these questions biology can at present give no reply.
In the face of such a case the mechanist must simply confess himself for the time being brought
to a standstill; and there are some able naturalists who have in recent years argued that by
the very nature of the case such phenomena are incapable of a rational explanation along the
lines of a physico-chemical or mechanistic analysis. These writers have urged, accordingly,
that we must postulate in the living organism some form of controlling or regulating agency
which does not lie in its physico-chemical configuration and is not a form of physical energy--something
that may be akin to a form of intelligence (conscious or unconscious), and to which the physical
energies are in some fashion subject. To this supposed factor in the vital processes have been
applied such terms as the "entelechy" (from Aristotle), or the "psychoid"; and some writers
have even employed the word "soul" in this sense--though this technical and limited use of
the word should not be confounded with the more usual and general one with which we are familiar.
Views of this kind represent a return, in some measure, to earlier vitalistic conceptions,
but differ from the latter in that they are an outcome of definite and exact experimental work.
They are therefore often spoken of collectively as "neo-vitalism."

