They also played and sang duets together, at least they had done so when they were first married;
now they went to concerts and the opera more frequently instead. They were liked wherever they
went, they had friends, they were called "charming people," and still something was wanting
to complete their happiness--they had no children.

And they would probably not have any now, as they had been married for some time, and the likelihood
of children being born to them was very remote.

No doubt he sighed and knit his brow in unguarded moments when he sat at his desk in his office,
but especially when he passed through the villages in the Brandenburg March on the rides he
took in the more distant environs of Berlin--partly for his health, partly because he still
retained the liking for riding from the time he was in the cavalry--and saw swarms of little
flaxen-haired children romping on the sandy roads. However, he did not let his wife perceive
that he missed something, for he loved her.

But she could not control herself in the same manner. The longer she was married the more nervous
she became. At times she felt irritated with her husband for no reason. She persistently turned
her eyes away from the announcement of births in the newspapers with a certain shrinking, and,
if her glance happened once in a way to fall on one in which happy parents notified the birth
of a son, she put the paper aside hastily.

In former years Käte Schlieben had knitted, crocheted, embroidered and sewn all sorts of pretty
little children's garments--she used to be quite famous for the daintiness of her little baby
jackets trimmed with blue and pink ribbons, all her newly married acquaintances would ask her
for the wonderful little things--but now she had finally given up that sort of work. She had
given up hope. What good did it do her to put her forefingers into the tiny sleeves of a baby's
first jacket, and, holding it out in front of her, gaze at it a long, long time with dreamy
eyes? It only tortured her.

And she felt the torture twice as much in those grey days that suddenly put in an appearance
without any reason, that creep in silently even in the midst of sunshine. On those occasions
she would lie on the couch in her room that was furnished with such exquisite taste--really
artistically--and close her eyes tightly. And then all at once a shout, clear, shrill, triumphant,
like the cry of a swallow on the wing, would ascend from the street, from the promenade under
the chestnut-trees. She stopped her ears when she heard that cry, which penetrated further
than any other tone, which soared up into the ether as swiftly as an arrow, and cradled itself
up there blissfully. She could not bear to hear anything like that--she was becoming morbid.

Alas, when she and her husband grew old, with minds no longer so receptive and too weary to
seek incitement in the world, who would bring it to them in their home? Who would bring them
anything of what was going on outside? What youth with his freshness, with the joyousness that
envelops those of twenty like a dainty garment, that beams from smooth brows like warmth and
sunshine, would give them back a breath of their youth, which had already disappeared in accordance
with the laws of Time? Who would wax enthusiastic at the things that had once made them enthusiastic,
and which they would enjoy once more as though they were new for them too? Who would fill the
house and garden with his laughter, with that careless laughter that is so infectious? Who
would kiss them with warm lips, and make them happy by his tenderness? Who would carry them
on his wings with him, so that they did not feel they were weary?

Alas, there is no second youth for those who are childless. Nobody would come into the inheritance
of delight in what was beautiful, of taste for what was beautiful, of enthusiasm for art and
artists which they would leave behind them. Nobody would guard reverently all those hundreds
of things and nicknacks she had gathered together so tastefully in her house with the delight
of a collector. And nobody would, alas, hold the hand that was fast growing cold with loving
hands, in that last difficult hour which all dread, and cry: "Father, Mother, don't go! Not
yet!" Oh, God, such loving hands would not close their eyes----

When Paul Schlieben used to come home from his office in those days he was co-partner in a
large business that his grandfather had founded and his father raised to a high position--he
often found his wife's sweet face stained with tears, her delicate complexion marred by constant
weeping. And her mouth only forced itself to smile, and in her beautiful brown eyes there lurked
a certain melancholy.

The doctor shrugged his shoulders. The lady was suffering from nerves, that was what was the
matter with her. She had too much time for brooding, she was left to herself too much.

In order to alter this, her anxious husband withdrew from the business for an indefinite period.
His partners could get on just as well without him. The doctor was right, he must devote himself
more to his wife; they were both so lonely, so entirely dependent on each other.

It was decided they should travel; there was no reason whatever why they should remain at home.
The beautiful house was given up, their furniture, all their costly things were stored. If
they cared to do so they could remain away for years, get impressions, amuse themselves. Käte
would paint landscapes in beautiful countries, and he--well, he could easily find compensation
in writing, should he miss his usual work.

They went to Italy and Corsica--still further, to Egypt and Greece. They saw the Highlands,
Sweden and Norway, very many beautiful places.

Käte pressed her husband's hand gratefully. Her susceptible mind waxed enthusiastic, and her
talent for painting, which was by no means insignificant, felt powerfully stimulated all at
once. How splendid to be able to paint, to keep hold of all that glow of colour, that wonderful
effect of tone that revealed itself to her delighted eyes on her canvas.

She was so eager that she went out with her painting materials in the morning, whether it was
at Capri, on the shores of the blue Bosphorus, in the yellow sand of the desert, facing the
precipitous pinnacles in the Fjords, or in the rose gardens of the Riviera. Her delicate face
got sunburnt; she no longer even paid any attention to her hands, which she used to take such
care of. The ardent longing to manifest herself had seized hold of her. Thank God, she could
create something now. The miserable feeling of a useless life did not exist any longer, nor
the torturing knowledge: your life ceases the moment your eyes close, there is nothing of you
that will survive you. Now she would at least leave something behind that she had produced,
even if it were only a picture. Her paintings increased in number; quite a quantity of rolls
of canvas were dragged about now wherever they went.

At first Paul Schlieben was very pleased to see his wife so enthusiastic. He politely carried
her camp-stool and easel for her, and never lost patience when he remained for hours and hours
near her whilst she worked. He lay in the scanty shadow of a palm-tree, and used to follow
the movements of her brush over the top of his book. How fortunate that her art gave her so
much satisfaction. Even though it was a little fatiguing for him to lie about doing nothing
he must not say anything, no, he must not, for he had nothing to offer her as a compensation,
nothing whatever. And he sighed. It was the same sigh that had escaped him when the numerous
flaxen-haired little children were playing about on the sandy roads in the Brandenburg March,
the same sigh which Sundays drew from him, when he used to see all the proletariat of the town--man
and wife and children, children, children--wandering to the Zoo. Yes, he was right--he passed
his hand a little nervously across his forehead--that writer was right--now, who could it be?--who
had once said somewhere: "Why does a man marry? Only to have children, heirs of his body, of
his blood. Children to whom he can pass on the wishes and hopes that are in him and also the
achievements; children who are descended from him like shoots from a tree, children who enable
a man to live eternally." That was the only way in which life after death could be understood--life
eternal. The resurrection of the body, which the Church promises, was to be interpreted as
the renewal of one's own personality in the coming generations. Oh, there was something great,
something indescribably comforting in such a survival.

"Are you speculating about something?" asked his wife. She had looked up from her easel for
a moment.

"Eh? What? Did you say anything, darling?" The man started up in a fright, as one who has been
straying along forbidden paths.

She laughed at his absent-mindedness; it was getting worse and worse. But what was he thinking
of? Business?--surely not. But perhaps he wanted to write a novel, a tale? Why should he not
try his hand at that for once in a way? That was something quite different from sending short
chatty accounts of one's journey to one of the papers. And of course he would be able to do
it. People who had not half the education, not half the knowledge, not half the aesthetic refinement
of feeling he had wrote quite readable books.

She talked brightly and persuasively to him, but he shook his head with a certain resignation:
nonsense, neither novels nor any other kind of writing. And he thought to himself: it is always
said that a piece of work is like a child--that is to say, only a truly great piece of work,
of course. Was the work he and his wife created work in that sense? Work that would exist eternally?
He suddenly found things to censure severely in her picture, which he had politely admired
only the day before.

She got quite frightened about it. Why was he so irritable to-day? Was he going to develop
nerves at the finish? Yes, it was evident, the warm air of the south did not suit him, he had
lost his briskness, looked so tired. There was nothing for it, her husband was more to her
than her picture, she would leave off her painting at once.

And that was what happened. They went away, travelled from one place to another, from one hotel
to another, along the lakes, over the frontier, until they made a somewhat longer stay high
up among the Alps in Switzerland.

Instead of lying under a palm-tree he lay in the shadow of a fir--now his wife was painting--and
followed the movements of her brush with his eyes over the top of his open book.

She was busily painting, for she had discovered a delightful subject. That green alpine meadow,
with its wealth of flowers as variegated as they could possibly be and the backs of the brown
cows with the sun shining on them, was as full of charm as the Garden of Eden on the first
day of creation. In her eagerness to see she had pushed her broad-brimmed hat back, and the
warm summer sun was burning little golden spots on her delicate cheeks and the narrow bridge
of her finely shaped nose. She held the brush that she had dipped into the green on her palette
up against the green of the meadow in order to compare the two, and blinked with half-closed
eyes to see if she had got the colour right.

At that moment a sound made her start--it was half a growl of displeasure at the disturbance,
half a murmur of approval. Her husband had risen and was looking at a couple of children who
had approached them noiselessly. They were offering rhododendrons for sale, the girl had a
small basket full of them, the boy was carrying his nosegay in his hand.

What exceedingly pretty creatures they were, the girl so blue-eyed and gentle, the boy a regular
little scamp. The woman's heart swelled. She bought all the rhododendrons from them, even gave
them more than they asked for them.

That was a stroke of great luck for the little Swiss boy and girl--just think, to get more
than they had asked for. They blushed with happiness, and when the strange lady asked them
questions in a kind voice, they commenced to chatter ingenuously.

She would have to paint those children, they were really too delightful, they were a thousand
times more beautiful than the most beautiful landscape.

Paul Schlieben looked on with a strange uneasiness whilst his wife painted the children, first
the big girl and then the small boy. How intently she gazed at the boy's round face. Her eyes
were brilliant, she never seemed to be tired, and only paused when the children grew impatient.
All her thoughts turned on the painting. Would the children come again that day? Was the light
good? Surely there would not be a storm to prevent the children from coming? Nothing else was
of any interest to her. She displayed great zeal. And still the pictures turned out bad; the
features were like theirs, but there was no trace of the child-mind in them. He saw it clearly:
those who are childless cannot paint children.

Poor woman! He looked on at her efforts with a feeling of deep compassion. Was not her face
becoming soft like a mother's, lovely and round when she bent down to the children? The Madonna
type--and still this woman had been denied children.

No, he could not look on at it any longer, it made him ill. The man bade the children go home
in a gruff voice. The pictures were ready, what was the good of touching them up any more?
That did not make them any better, on the contrary.

That evening Käte cried as she used to cry at home. And she was angry with her husband. Why
did he not let her have that pleasure? Why did he all at once say they were to leave? She did
not understand him. Were the children not sweet, delightful? Was it because they disturbed him?

"Yes," was all he said. There was a hard dry sound in his voice--a "yes" that came with such
difficulty--and she raised her head from the handkerchief in which she had buried it and looked
across at him. He was standing at the window in the carpeted room of the hotel, his hands resting
on the window-ledge, his forehead pressed against the pane. He was gazing silently at the vast
landscape before him, in which the mountaintops covered with snow that glowed in the radiance
of the setting sun spoke to him of immortality. How he pressed his lips together, how nervously
his moustache trembled.

She crept up to him and laid her head on his shoulder. "What is the matter with you?" she asked
him softly. "Do you miss your work--yes, it's your work, isn't it? I was afraid of that. You
are getting tired of this, you must be doing something again. I promise you I'll be reasonable--never
complain any more--only stop here a little longer, only three weeks longer--two weeks."

He remained silent.

"Only ten--eight--six days more. Not even that?" she said, bitterly disappointed, for he had
shaken his head. She wound her arms round his neck. "Only five more--four--three days, please.
Why not? Those few days, please only three days more." She positively haggled for each day.
"Oh, then at least two days more."

She sobbed aloud, her arms fell from his neck--he must allow her two days.

Her voice cut him to the heart. He had never heard her beg like that before, but he made a
stand against the feeling of yielding that was creeping over him. Only no sentimentality. It
was better to go away from there quickly, much better for her.

"We're going away to-morrow."

And as she looked at him with wide-open horror-struck eyes and pallid cheeks, the words escaped
from his lips although he had not intended saying them, drawn from him by a bitterness that
he could not master any longer:

"They are not yours!"

CHAPTER II

And they went away.

But it seemed to the woman as though every joy had disappeared with the emerald green meadow
in the Alps, in which she had painted the lovely children. There was the same old nervous twitch
in her face, the corners of her mouth drooped slightly and she cried very easily. Paul Schlieben
watched his wife with positive dismay. Oh dear, had it all been in vain, the giving up of his
work, all this travelling about without making any plans that was so fatiguing? Had the old
melancholy frame of mind taken possession of her again?

When he saw her sitting there so disinclined to exert herself, her hands lying idle in her
lap, a feeling akin to fury came over him. Why did she not do something? Why did she not paint?
That confounded meadow in the Alps was surely not the only place where she could work. Was
it not beautiful here as well?

They had settled down in the Black Forest. But it was in vain that he hoped from day to day
that one of the quiet green wooded valleys or one of the nut-brown maidens of the Black Forest
with her cherry-red hat and enormous red umbrella, as Vautier has painted them, would tempt
her to bring out her painting materials. She felt no inclination--nay, she had positively a
kind of dread of touching her brushes again.

He reproached himself bitterly in secret. Would it not have been better to have left her that
pleasure and not have interfered? Still--the thing would have had to end some time, and the
longer it had lasted the more difficult the separation would have been. But he had made up
his mind about one thing, they would return to Berlin again late in the autumn. With the best
will in the world he would not be able to stand it any longer. He was heartily tired of this
wandering from hotel to hotel, this lounging about the world with nothing to show for it but
an occasional short article for the papers, a chatty account of a journey to some corner of
the earth of which people knew but little. He longed for a home of his own again, and felt
a great desire to return to his business, which he had often looked upon as a fetter and so
prosaic whilst he was in it. But Käte! When he thought of her again spending many hours alone
at home, with no interests beyond herself and her reading for in her state of hypersensitiveness
she found little pleasure in associating with other women--a feeling of hopelessness came over
him. Then there would be the same sad eyes again, the same melancholy smile, the old irritable
moods from which the whole house used to suffer, herself the most.

And he subjected himself to an examination as though blaming himself for it. He passed his
whole life in review: had he committed any crime that no son had been given to him, no daughter?
Ah, if only Käte had a child everything would be right. Then she would have quite enough to
do, would be entirely taken up with the little creature round which the love of parents, full
of hope and entitled to hope, revolves in an ever-renewed circle.

Both husband and wife were torturing themselves, for the woman's thoughts especially always
ended at that one point. Now that she had been separated from those dear children, from the,
alas, much too short happiness she had experienced that summer, it seemed to have become quite
clear to her what she missed--for had it not only weighed on her like a painful suspicion before?
But now, now the terrible unvarnished truth was there: everything people otherwise call "happiness"
in this world is nothing compared to a child's kiss, to its smile, to its nestling in its mother's
lap.

