"Oh, well, if you mean that," said Vilda argumentatively, "I don't call writin' poetry any
great test of smartness. There ain't been a big fool in this village for years but could do
somethin' in the writin' line. I guess it ain't any great trick, if you have a mind to put
yourself down to it. For my part, I've always despised to see a great, hulkin' man, that could
handle a hoe or a pitchfork, sit down and twirl a pen-stalk."

"Well, I ain't so sure. I guess the Lord hes his own way o' managin' things. We ain't all cal'lated
to hoe pertaters nor yet to write poetry verses. There's as much dif'rence in folks 's there
is in anybody. Now, I can take care of a dairy as well as the next one, 'n' nobody was ever
hearn to complain o' my butter; but there was that lady in New York State that used to make
flowers 'n' fruit 'n' graven images out o' her churnin's. You've hearn tell o' that piece she
carried to the Centennial? Now, no sech doin's 's that ever come into my head. I've went on
makin' round balls for twenty years: 'n', massy on us, don't I remember when my old butter
stamp cracked, 'n' I couldn't get another with an ear o' corn on it, 'n' hed to take one with
a beehive, why, I was that homesick I couldn't bear to look my butter 'n the eye! But that
woman would have had a new picter on her balls every day, I shouldn't wonder! (For massy's
sake, Maria, don't stan' stock still 'n' let the flies eat yer right up!) No, I tell yer, it
takes all kinds o' folks to make a world. Now, I couldn't never read poetry. It's so dull,
it makes me feel 's if I'd been trottin' all day in the sun! But there's folks that can stan'
it, or they wouldn't keep on turnin' of it out. The children are nice children enough, but
have they got any folks anywhere, 'n' what kind of folks, 'n' where'd they come from, anyhow:
that's what we've got to find out, 'n' I guess it'll be consid'able of a chore!"

"I don't know but you're right. I thought some of sendin' Jabe to the city to-morrow."

"Jabe? Well, I s'pose he'd be back by 'nother spring; but who'd we get ter shovel us out this
winter, seein' as there ain't more 'n three men in the whole village? Aunt Hitty says twenty-year
engagements 's goin' out o' fashion in the big cities, 'n' I'm glad if they be. They'd 'a'
never come in, I told her, if there'd ever been an extry man in these parts, but there never
was. If you got holt o' one by good luck, you had ter keep holt, if 't was two years or twenty-two,
or go without. I used ter be too proud ter go without; now I've got more sense, thanks be!
Why don't you go to the city yourself, Vildy? Jabe Slocum ain't got sprawl enough to find out
anythin' wuth knowin'."

"I suppose I could go, though I don't like the prospect of it very much. I haven't been there
for years, but I'd ought to look after my property there once in a while. Deary me! it seems
as if we weren't ever going to have any more peace."

"Mebbe we ain't," said Samantha, as they wound up the meeting-house hill; "but ain't we hed
'bout enough peace for one spell? If peace was the best thing we could get in this world, we
might as well be them old cows by the side o' the road there. There ain't nothin' so peaceful
as a cow, when you come to that!"

The two women went into the church more perplexed in mind than they would have cared to confess.
During the long prayer (the minister could talk to God at much greater length than he could
talk about Him), Miss Vilda prayed that the Lord would provide the two little wanderers with
some more suitable abiding-place than the White Farm; and that, failing this, He would inform
his servant whether there was anything unchristian in sending them to a comfortable public
asylum. She then reminded Heaven that she had made the Foreign Missionary Society her residuary
legatee (a deed that established her claim to being a zealous member of the fold), so that
she could scarcely be blamed for not wishing to take two orphan children into her peaceful home.

Well, it is no great wonder that so faulty a prayer did not bring the wished-for light at once;
but the ministering angels, who had the fatherless little ones in their care, did not allow
Miss Vilda's mind to rest quietly. Just as the congregation settled itself after the hymn,
and the palm-leaf fans began to sway in the air, a swallow flew in through the open window;
and, after fluttering to and fro over the pulpit, hid itself in a dark corner, unnoticed by
all save the small boys of the congregation, to whom it was, of course, a priceless boon. But
Miss Vilda could not keep her wandering thoughts on the sermon any more than if she had been
a small boy. She was anything but superstitious; but she had seen that swallow, or some of
its ancestors, before.... It had flown into the church on the very Sunday of her mother's death....
They had left her sitting in the high-backed rocker by the window, the great family Bible and
her spectacles on the little light-stand beside her.... When they returned from church, they
had found their mother sitting as they left her, with a smile on her face, but silent and lifeless....
And through the glass of the spectacles, as they lay on the printed page, Vilda had read the
words, "For a bird of the air shall carry the voice, and that which hath wings shall tell the
matter;" had read them wonderingly, and marked the place with reverent fingers.... The swallow
flew in again, years afterward.... She could not remember the day or the month, but she could
never forget the summer, for it was the last bright one of her life, the last that pretty Martha
ever spent at the White Farm.... And now here was the swallow again.... "For a bird of the
air shall carry the voice, and that which hath wings shall tell the matter."

"As a bird that wandereth from her nest, so is a man that wandereth from his place."

And then the text fell on her bewildered ears, and roused her from one reverie to plunge her
in another. It was chosen, as it chanced, from the First Epistle of Timothy, chapter first,
verse fifth: "Now the end of the commandment is charity, out of a pure heart."

"That means the Missionary Society," said Miss Vilda to her conscience, doggedly; but she knew
better. The parson, the text,--or was it the bird?--had brought the message; but for the moment
she did not lend the hearing ear or the understanding heart.

SCENE X.

The Supper Table.

Aunt Hitty, otherwise Mrs. Silas Tarbox, was as cheery and loquacious a person as you could
find in a Sabbath day's journey. She was armed with a substantial amount of knowledge at almost
every conceivable point; but if an unexpected emergency ever did arise, her imagination was
equal to the strain put upon it and rose superior to the occasion. Yet of an evening, or on
Sunday, she was no village gossip; it was only when you put a needle in her hand or a cutting-board
in her lap that her memory started on its interminable journeyings through the fields of the
past. She knew every biography and every "ought-to-be-ography" in the county, and could tell
you the branches of every genealogical tree in the village.

It was dusk at the White Farm, and a late supper was spread upon the hospitable board. (Aunt
Hitty was always sure of a bountiful repast. If one were going to economize, one would not
choose for that purpose the day when the village seamstress came to sew; especially when the
aforesaid lady served the community in the stead of a local newspaper.)

The children had eaten their bread and milk, and were out in the barn with Jabe, watching the
milking. Aunt Hitty was in a cheerful mood as she reflected on her day's achievements. Out
of Dr. Jonathan Cummins' old cape coat she had carved a pair of brief trousers and a vest for
Timothy; out of Mrs. Jonathan Cummins' waterproof a serviceable jacket; and out of Deacon Abijah
Cummins' linen duster an additional coat and vest for warm days. The owners of these garments
had been dead many years, but nothing was ever thrown away (and, for that matter, very little
given away) at the White Farm, and the ancient habiliments had finally been diverted to a useful
purpose.

"I hope I shall relish my vittles to-night," said Aunt Hitty, as she poured her tea into her
saucer, and set the cup in her little blue "cup-plate;" "but I've had the neuralgy so in my
face that it's be'n more 'n ten days sence I've be'n able to carry a knife to my mouth....
Your meat vittles is always so tasty, Miss Cummins. I was sayin' to Mis' Sawyer last week I
think she lets her beef hang too long. Its dretful tender, but I don't b'lieve its hullsome.
For my part, as I've many a time said to Si, I like meat with some chaw to it.... Mis' Sawyer
don't put half enough vittles on her table. She thinks it scares folks; it don't me a mite,--it
makes me 's hungry as a wolf. When I set a table for comp'ny I pile on a hull lot, 'n' I find
it kind o' discourages 'em.... Mis' Southwick's hevin' a reg'lar brash o' house-cleanin'. She's
too p'ison neat for any earthly use, that woman is. She's fixed clam-shell borders roun' all
her garding beds, an' got enough left for a pile in one corner, where she's goin' to set her
oleander kag. Then she's bought a haircloth chair and got a new three-ply carpet in her parlor,
'n' put the old one in the spare-room 'n' the back-entry. Her daughter's down here from New
Haven. She's married into one of the first families o' Connecticut, Lobelia has, 'n' she puts
on a good many airs. She's rigged out her mother's parlor with lace curtains 'n' one thing
'n' 'other, 'n' wants it called the drawin'-room. Did ye ever hear tell such foolishness? 'Drawin'-room!'
s' I to Si; 'what's it goin' to draw? Nothin' but flies, I guess likely!' ... Mis' Pennell's
got a new girl to help round the house,--one o' them pindlin' light-complected Smith girls,
from the Swamp,--look's if they was nussed on bonny-clabber. She's so hombly I sh'd think 't
would make her back ache to carry her head round. She ain't very smart, neither. Her mother
sent word she'd pick up 'n' do better when she got her growth. That made Mis' Pennell hoppin'
mad. She said she didn't cal'late to pay a girl three shillin's a week for growin'. Mis' Pennell's
be'n feelin' consid'able slim, or she wouldn't 'a' hired help; it's just like pullin' teeth
for Deacon Pennell to pay out money for anything like that. He watches every mouthful the girl
puts into her mouth, 'n' it's made him 'bout down sick to see her fleshin' up on his vittles....
They say he has her put the mornin' coffee-groun's to dry on the winder-sill, 'n' then has
'em scalt over for dinner; but, there! I don' know 's there's a mite o' truth in it, so I won't
repeat it. They went to him to git a subscription for the new hearse the other day. Land sakes!
we need one bad enough. I thought for sure, at the last funeral we had, that they'd never git
Mis' Strout to the graveyard safe and sound. I kep' a-thinkin' all the way how she'd 'a' took
on, if she'd be'n alive. She was the most timersome woman 't ever was. She was a Thomson, 'n'
all the Thomsons was scairt at their own shadders. Ivory Strout rid right behind the hearse,
'n' he says his heart was in his mouth the hull durin' time for fear 't would break down. He
didn't git much comfort out the occasion, I guess! Wa' n't he mad he hed to ride in the same
buggy with his mother-in-law! The minister planned it all out, 'n' wrote down the order o'
the mourners, 'n' passeled him out with old Mis' Thomson. I was stan'in' close by, 'n' I heard
him say he s'posed he could go that way if he must, but 't would spile the hull blamed thing
for him! ... Well, as I was sayin', the seleckmen went to Deacon Pennell to get a contribution
towards buyin' the new hearse; an' do you know, he wouldn't give 'em a dollar? He told 'em
he gave five dollars towards the other one, twenty years ago, 'n' hadn't never got a cent's
worth o' use out of it. That's Deacon Pennell all over! As Si says, if the grace o' God wa'n't
given to all of us without money 'n' without price, you wouldn't never hev ketched Deacon Pennell
experiencin' religion! It's got to be a free gospel 't would convict him o' sin, that's certain!
... They say Seth Thatcher's married out in Iowy. His mother's tickled 'most to death. She
heerd he was settin' up with a girl out there, 'n' she was scairt to death for fear he'd get
served as Lemuel 'n' Cyrus was. The Thatcher boys never hed any luck gettin' married, 'n' they
always took disappointments in love turrible hard. You know Cyrus set in that front winder
o' Mis' Thatcher's, 'n' rocked back 'n' forth for ten year, till he wore out five cane-bottomed
cheers, 'n' then rocked clean through, down cellar, all on account o' Crany Ann Sweat. Well,
I hope she got her comeuppance in another world,--she never did in this; she married well 'n'
lived in Boston.... Mis' Thatcher hopes Seth 'll come home to live. She's dretful lonesome
in that big house, all alone. She'd oughter have somebody for a company-keeper. She can't see
nothin' but trees 'n' cows from her winders.... Beats all, the places they used to put houses....
Either they'd get 'em right under foot so 't you'd most tread on 'em when you walked along
the road, or else they'd set 'em clean back in a lane, where the women folks couldn't see face
o' clay week in 'n' week out....

"Joel Whitten's widder's just drawed his pension along o' his bein' in the war o' 1812. ...
It's took 'em all these years to fix it. ... Massy sakes! don't some folks have their luck
buttered in this world?... She was his fourth wife, 'n' she never lived with him but thirteen
days 'fore he up 'n' died. ... It doos seem's if the guv'ment might look after things a little
mite closer.... Talk about Joel Whitten's bein' in the war o' 1812! Everybody knows Joel Whitten
wouldn't have fit a skeeter! He never got any further 'n Scratch Corner, any way, 'n' there
he clim a tree or hid behind a hen-coop somewheres till the regiment got out o' sight.... Yes:
one, two, three, four,--Huldy was his fourth wife. His first was a Hogg, from Hoggses Mills.
The second was Dorcas Doolittle, aunt to Jabe Slocum; she didn't know enough to make soap,
Dorcas didn't.... Then there was Delia Weeks, from the lower corner.... She didn't live long....
There was some thin' wrong with Delia.... She was one o' the thin-blooded, white-livered kind....
You couldn't get her warm, no matter how hard you tried. ... She'd set over a roarin' fire
in the cook-stove even in the prickliest o' the dog-days. ... The mill-folks used to say the
Whittens burnt more cut-roun's 'n' stickens 'n any three fam'lies in the village. ... Well,
after Delia died, then come Huldy's turn, 'n' it's she, after all, that's drawed the pension....
Huldy took Joel's death consid'able hard, but I guess she'll perk up, now she's come int' this
money. ... She's awful leaky-minded, Huldy is, but she's got tender feelin's.... One day she
happened in at noon-time, 'n' set down to the table with Si 'n' I.... All of a suddent she
bust right out cryin' when Si was offerin' her a piece o' tripe, 'n' then it come out that
she couldn't never bear the sight o' tripe, it reminded her so of Joel! It seems tripe was
a favorite dish o' Joel's. All his wives cooked it firstrate.... Jabe Slocum seems to set consid'able
store by them children, don't he?... I guess he'll never ketch up with his work, now he's got
them hangin' to his heels.... He doos beat all for slowness! Slocum's a good name for him,
that's certain. An' 's if that wa'n't enough, his mother was a Stillwell, 'n' her mother was
a Doolittle!... The Doolittles was the slowest fam'ly in Lincoln County. (Thank you, I'm well
helped, Samanthy.) Old Cyrus Doolittle was slower 'n a toad funeral. He was a carpenter by
trade, 'n' he was twenty-five years buildin' his house; 'n' it warn't no great, either....
The stagin' was up ten or fifteen years, 'n' he shingled it four or five times before he got
roun', for one patch o' shingles used to wear out 'fore he got the next patch on. He 'n' Mis'
Doolittle lived in two rooms in the L. There was elegant banisters, but no stairs to 'em, 'n'
no entry floors. There was a tip-top cellar, but there wa'n't no way o' gittin' down to it,
'n' there wa'n't no conductors to the cisterns. There was only one door panel painted in the
parlor. Land sakes! the neighbors used to happen in 'bout every week for years 'n' years, hopin'
he'd get another one finished up, but he never did,--not to my knowledge.... Why, it's the
gospel truth that when Mis' Doolittle died he had to have her embalmed, so 't he could git
the front door hung for the fun'ral! (No more tea, I thank you; my cup ain't out.) ... Speakin'
o' slow folks, Elder Banks tells an awful good story 'bout Jabe Slocum.... There's another
man down to Edgewood, Aaron Peek by name, that's 'bout as lazy as Jabe. An' one day, when the
loafers roun' the store was talkin' 'bout 'em, all of a suddent they see the two of 'em startin'
to come down Marm Berry's hill, right in plain sight of the store.... Well, one o' the Edgewood
boys bate one o' the Pleasant River boys that they could tell which one of 'em was the laziest
by the way they come down that hill.... So they all watched, 'n' bime by, when Jabe was most
down to the bottom of the hill, they was struck all of a heap to see him break into a kind
of a jog trot 'n' run down the balance o' the way. Well, then, they fell to quarrelin'; for
o' course the Pleasant River folks said Aaron Peek was the laziest, 'n' the Edgewood boys declared
he hedn't got no such record for laziness's Jabe Slocum hed; an' when they was explainin' of
it, one way 'n' 'nother, Elder Banks come along, 'n' they asked him to be the judge. When he
heerd tell how 't was, he said he agreed with the Edgewood folks that Jabe was lazier 'n Aaron.
'Well, I snum, I don't see how you make that out,' says the Pleasant River boys; 'for Aaron
walked down, 'n' Jabe run a piece o' the way.' 'If Jabe Slocum run,' says the elder, as impressive
as if he was preachin',--'if Jabe Slocum ever run, then 't was because he was too doggoned
lazy to hold back! 'an' that settled it!... (No, I couldn't eat another mossel, Miss Cummins;
I've made out a splendid supper.) ... You can't git such pie 'n' doughnuts anywhere else in
the village, 'n' what I say I mean.... Do you make your riz doughnuts with emptin's? I want
to know! Si says there's more faculty in cookin' flour food than there is in meat-victuals,
'n' I guess he's 'bout right."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was bedtime, and Timothy was in his little room carrying on the most elaborate and complicated
plots for reading the future. It must be known that Jabe Slocum was as full of signs as a Farmer's
Almanac, and he had given Timothy more than one formula for attaining his secret desires,--old,
well-worn recipes for luck, which had been tried for generations in Pleasant River, and which
were absolutely "certain" in their results. The favorites were:--

  "Star bright, star light,
  First star I've seen to-night,
  Wish I may, wish I might,
  Get the wish I wish to-night;"

and one still more impressive:--

  "Four posts upon my bed,
  Four corners overhead;
  Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John,
  Bless the bed I lay upon.
  Matthew, John, Luke, and Mark,
  Grant my wish and keep it dark."

These rhymes had been chanted with great solemnity, and Timothy sat by the open window in the
sweet darkness of the summer night, wishing that he and Gay might stay forever in this sheltered
spot. "I'll make a sign of my very own," he thought. "I'll get Gay's ankle-tie, and put it
on the window-sill, with the toe pointing out. Then I'll wish that if we are going to stay
at the White Farm, the angels will turn it around, 'toe in' to the room, for a sign to me;
and if we've got to go, I'll wish they may leave it the other way; and, oh dear, but I'm glad
it's so little and easy to move; and then I'll say Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, four times
over, without stopping, as Jabe told me to, and then see how it turns out in the morning." ...

But the incantation was more soothing than the breath of Miss Vilda's scarlet poppies, and
before the magical verse had fallen upon the drowsy air for the third time, Timothy was fast
asleep, with a smile of hope on his parted lips.

There was a sweet summer shower in the night. The soft breezes, fresh from shaded dells and
nooks of fern, fragrant with the odor of pine and vine and wet wood-violets, blew over the
thirsty meadows and golden stubble-fields, and brought an hour of gentle rain.

It sounded a merry tintinnabulation on Samantha's milk-pans, wafted the scent of dripping honeysuckle
into the farmhouse windows, and drenched the night-caps in which prudent farmers had dressed
their haycocks.

Next morning, the green world stood on tiptoe to welcome the victorious sun, and every little
leaf shone as a child's eyes might shine at the remembrance of a joy just past.

A meadow lark perched on a swaying apple-branch above Martha's grave, and poured out his soul
in grateful melody; and Timothy, wakened by Nature's sweet good-morning, leaped from the too
fond embrace of Miss Vilda's feather-bed.... And lo, a miracle!... The woodbine clung close
to the wall beneath his window. It was tipped with strong young shoots reaching out their innocent
hands to cling to any support that offered; and one baby tendril that seemed to have grown
in a single night, so delicate it was, had somehow been blown by the sweet night wind from
its drooping place on the parent vine, and, falling on the window-sill, had curled lovingly
round Gay's fairy shoe, and held it fast!

SCENE XI.

The Honeysuckle Porch.

MISS VILDA DECIDES THAT TWO IS ONE TOO MANY, AND TIMOTHY BREAKS A HUMMINGBIRD'S EGG.

It was a drowsy afternoon. The grasshoppers chirped lazily in the warm grasses, and the toads
blinked sleepily under the shadows of the steps, scarcely snapping at the flies as they danced
by on silver wings. Down in the old garden the still pools, in which the laughing brook rested
itself here and there, shone like glass under the strong beams of the sun, and the baby horned-pouts
rustled their whiskers drowsily and scarcely stirred the water as they glided slowly through
its crystal depths.

The air was fragrant with the odor of new-mown grass and the breath of wild strawberries that
had fallen under the sickle, to make the sweet hay sweeter with their crimson juices. The whir
of the scythes and the clatter of the mowing machine came from the distant meadows. Field mice
and ground sparrows were aware that it probably was all up with their little summer residences,
for haying time was at its height, and the Giant, mounted on the Avenging Chariot, would speedily
make his appearance, and buttercups and daisies, tufted grasses and blossoming weeds, must
all bow their heads before him, and if there was anything more valuable hidden at their roots,
so much the worse!

And if a bird or a mouse had been especially far-sighted and had located his family near a
stump fence on a particularly uneven bit of ground, why there was always a walking Giant going
about the edges with a gleaming scythe, so that it was no wonder, when reflecting on these
matters after a day's palpitation, that the little denizens of the fields thought it very natural
that there should be Nihilists and Socialists in the world, plotting to overturn monopolies
and other gigantic schemes for crushing the people.

Rags enjoyed the excitement of haying immensely. But then, his life was one long holiday now
anyway, and the close quarters, scanty fare, and wearisome monotony of Minerva Court only visited
his memory dimly when he was suffering the pangs of indigestion. For in the first few weeks
of his life at the White Farm, before his appetite was satiated, he was wont to eat all the
white cat's food as well as his own; and as this highway robbery took place in the retirement
of the shed, where Samantha Ann always swept them for their meals, no human being was any the
wiser, and only the angels saw the white cat getting whiter and whiter and thinner and thinner,
while every day Rags grew more corpulent and aldermanic in his figure. But as his stomach was
more favorably located than an alderman's, he could still see the surrounding country, and
he had the further advantage of possessing four legs (instead of two) to carry it about.

Timothy was happy, too, for he was a dreamer, and this quiet life harmonized well with the
airy fabric of his dreams. He loved every stick and stone about the old homestead already,
because the place had brought him the only glimpse of freedom and joy that he could remember
in these last bare and anxious years; and if there were other and brighter years, far, far
back in the misty gardens of the past, they only yielded him a secret sense of "having been,"
a memory that could never be captured and put into words.

Each morning he woke fearing to find his present life a vision, and each morning he gazed with
unspeakable gladness at the sweet reality that stretched itself before his eyes as he stood
for a moment at his little window above the honeysuckle porch.

There were the cucumber frames (he had helped Jabe to make them); the old summer house in the
garden (he had held the basket of nails and handed Jabe the tools when he patched the roof);
the little workshop where Samantha potted her tomato plants (and he had been allowed to water
them twice, with fingers trembling at the thought of too little or too much for the tender
things); and the grindstone where Jabe ground the scythes and told him stories as he sat and
turned the wheel, while Gay sat beside them making dandelion chains. Yes, it was all there,
and he was a part of it.

Timothy had all the poet's faculty of interpreting the secrets that are hidden in every-day
things, and when he lay prone on the warm earth in the cornfield, deep among the "varnished
crispness of the jointed stalks," the rustling of the green things growing sent thrills of
joy along the sensitive currents of his being. He was busy in his room this afternoon putting
little partitions in some cigar boxes, where, very soon, two or three dozen birds' eggs were
to repose in fleece-lined nooks: for Jabe Slocum's collection of three summers (every egg acquired
in the most honorable manner, as he explained), had all passed into Timothy's hands that very
day, in consideration of various services well and conscientiously performed. What a delight
it was to handle the precious bits of things, like porcelain in their daintiness!--to sort
out the tender blue of the robin, the speckled beauty of the sparrow; to put the pee-wee's
and the thrush's each in its place, with a swift throb of regret that there would have been
another little soft throat bursting with a song, if some one had not taken this pretty egg.
And there was, over and above all, the never ending marvel of the one humming-bird's egg that
lay like a pearl in Timothy's slender brown hand. Too tiny to be stroked like the others, only
big enough to be stealthily kissed. So tiny that he must get out of bed two or three times
in the night to see if it is safe. So tiny that he has horrible fears lest it should slip out
or be stolen, and so he must take the box to the window and let the moonlight shine upon the
fleecy cotton, and find that it is still there, and cover it safely over again and creep back
to bed, wishing that he might see a "thumb's bigness of burnished plumage" sheltering it with
her speck of a breast. Ah! to have a little humming-bird's egg to love, and to feel that it
was his very own, was something to Timothy, as it is to all starved human hearts full of love
that can find no outlet.

Miss Vilda was knitting, and Samantha was shelling peas, on the honeysuckle porch. It had been
several days since Miss Cummins had gone to the city, and had come back no wiser than she went,
save that she had made a somewhat exhaustive study of the slums, and had acquired a more intimate
knowledge of the ways of the world than she had ever possessed before. She had found Minerva
Court, and designated it on her return as a "sink of iniquity," to which Afric's sunny fountains,
India's coral strand, and other tropical localities frequented by missionaries were virtuous
in comparison.

"For you don't expect anything of black heathens," said she; "but there ain't any question
in my mind about the accountability of folks livin' in a Christian country, where you can wear
clothes and set up to an air-tight stove and be comfortable, to say nothin' of meetinghouses
every mile or two, and Bible Societies and Young Men's and Young Women's Christian Associations,
and the gospel free to all with the exception of pew rents and contribution boxes, and those
omitted when it's necessary."

She affirmed that the ladies and gentlemen whose acquaintance she had made in Minerva Court
were, without exception, a "mess of malefactors," whose only good point was that, lacking all
human qualities, they didn't care who she was, nor where she came from, nor what she came for;
so that as a matter of fact she had escaped without so much as leaving her name and place of
residence. She learned that Mrs. Nancy Simmons had sought pastures new in Montana; that Miss
Ethel Montmorency still resided in the metropolis, but did not choose to disclose her modest
dwelling-place to the casual inquiring female from the rural districts; that a couple of children
had disappeared from Minerva Court, if they remembered rightly, but that there was no disturbance
made about the matter as it saved several people much trouble; that Mrs. Morrison had had no
relations, though she possessed a large circle of admiring friends; that none of the admiring
friends had called since her death or asked about the children; and finally that Number 3 had
been turned into a saloon, and she was welcome to go in and slake her thirst for information
with something more satisfactory than she could get outside.

The last straw, and one that would have broken the back of any self-respecting (unmarried)
camel in the universe, was the offensive belief, on the part of the Minerva Courtiers, that
the rigid Puritan maiden who was conducting the examination was the erring mother of the children,
visiting (in disguise) their former dwelling-place. The conversation on this point becoming
extremely pointed and jocose, Miss Cummins finally turned and fled, escaping to the railway
station as fast as her trembling legs could carry her. So the trip was a fruitless one, and
the mystery that enshrouded Timothy and Lady Gay was as impenetrable as ever.

"I wish I'd 'a' gone to the city with you," remarked Samantha. "Not that I could 'a' found
out anything more 'n you did, for I guess there ain't anybody thereabouts that knows more 'n
we do, and anybody 't wants the children won't be troubled with the relation. But I'd like
to give them bold-faced jigs 'n' hussies a good piece o' my mind for once! You're too timersome,
Vildy! I b'lieve I'll go some o' these days yet, and carry a good stout umbrella in my hand
too. It says in a book somewhar's that there's insults that can only be wiped out in blood.
Ketch 'em hintin' that I'm the mother of anybody, that's all! I declare I don' know what our
Home Missionary Societies's doin' not to regenerate them places or exterminate 'em, one or
t' other. Somehow our religion don't take holt as it ought to. It takes a burnin' zeal to clean
out them slum places, and burnin' zeal ain't the style nowadays. As my father used to say,
'Religion's putty much like fish 'n' pertetters; if it's hot it's good, 'n' if it's cold 'tain't
wuth a'--well, a short word come in there, but I won't say it. Speakin' o' religion, I never
had any experience in teachin', but I didn't s'pose there was any knack 'bout teachin' religion,
same as there is 'bout teachin' readin' 'n' 'rithmetic, but I hed hard work makin' Timothy
understand that catechism you give him to learn the other Sunday. He was all upsot with doctrine
when he come to say his lesson. Now you can't scare some children with doctrine, no matter
how hot you make it, or mebbe they don't more 'n half believe it; but Timothy's an awful sensitive
creeter, 'n' when he come to that answer to the question 'What are you then by nature? An enemy
to God, a child of Satan, and an heir of hell,' he hid his head on my shoulder and bust right
out cryin'. 'How many Gods is there?' s' e, after a spell. 'Land!' thinks I, 'I knew he was
a heathen, but if he turns out to be an idolater, whatever shall I do with him!' 'Why, where've
you ben fetched up?' s' I. 'There's only one God, the High and Mighty Ruler of the Univarse,'
s' I. 'Well,' s' e', 'there must be more 'n one, for the God in this lesson isn't like the
one in Miss Dora's book at all!' Land sakes! I don't want to teach catechism agin in a hurry,
not tell I've hed a little spiritual instruction from the minister. The fact is, Vildy, that
our b'liefs, when they're picked out o' the Bible and set down square and solid 'thout any
softening down 'n' explainin' that they ain't so bad as they sound, is too strong meat for
babes. Now I'm Orthodox to the core" (here she lowered her voice as if there might be a stray
deacon in the garden), "but 'pears to me if I was makin' out lessons for young ones I wouldn't
fill 'em so plumb full o' brimstun. Let 'em do a little suthin' to deserve it 'fore you scare
'em to death, say I."

"Jabe explained it all out to him after supper. It beats all how he gets on with children."

"I'd ruther hear how he explained it," answered Samantha sarcastically. "He's great on expoundin'
the Scripters jest now. Well, I hope it'll last. Land sakes! you'd think nobody ever experienced
religion afore, he's so set up 'bout it. You'd s'pose he kep' the latch-key o' the heavenly
mansions right in his vest pocket, to hear him go on. He couldn't be no more stuck up 'bout
it if he'd ben one o' the two brothers that come over in three ships!"

"There goes Elder Nichols," said Miss Vilda. "Now there's a plan we hadn't thought of. We might
take the children over to Purity Village. I think likely the Shakers would take 'em. They like
to get young folks and break 'em into their doctrines."

"Tim 'd make a tiptop Shaker," laughed Samantha. "He'd be an Elder afore he was twenty-one.
I can seem to see him now, with his hair danglin' long in his neck, a blue coat buttoned up
to his chin, and his hands see-sawin' up 'n' down, prancin' round in them solemn dances."

"Tim would do well enough, but I ain't so sure of Gay. They'd have their hands full, I guess!"

