To Monsieur le General Baron de Pommereul, a token of the friendship
  between our fathers, which survives in their sons.

                                                        DE BALZAC.

MELMOTH RECONCILED

There is a special variety of human nature obtained in the Social Kingdom by a process analogous
to that of the gardener's craft in the Vegetable Kingdom, to wit, by the forcing-house--a species
of hybrid which can be raised neither from seed nor from slips. This product is known as the
Cashier, an anthropomorphous growth, watered by religious doctrine, trained up in fear of the
guillotine, pruned by vice, to flourish on a third floor with an estimable wife by his side
and an uninteresting family. The number of cashiers in Paris must always be a problem for the
physiologist. Has any one as yet been able to state correctly the terms of the proportion sum
wherein the cashier figures as the unknown x? Where will you find the man who shall live with
wealth, like a cat with a caged mouse? This man, for further qualification, shall be capable
of sitting boxed in behind an iron grating for seven or eight hours a day during seven-eighths
of the year, perched upon a cane-seated chair in a space as narrow as a lieutenant's cabin
on board a man-of-war. Such a man must be able to defy anchylosis of the knee and thigh joints;
he must have a soul above meanness, in order to live meanly; must lose all relish for money
by dint of handling it. Demand this peculiar specimen of any creed, educational system, school,
or institution you please, and select Paris, that city of fiery ordeals and branch establishment
of hell, as the soil in which to plant the said cashier. So be it. Creeds, schools, institutions
and moral systems, all human rules and regulations, great and small, will, one after another,
present much the same face that an intimate friend turns upon you when you ask him to lend
you a thousand francs. With a dolorous dropping of the jaw, they indicate the guillotine, much
as your friend aforesaid will furnish you with the address of the money-lender, pointing you
to one of the hundred gates by which a man comes to the last refuge of the destitute.

Yet nature has her freaks in the making of a man's mind; she indulges herself and makes a few
honest folk now and again, and now and then a cashier.

Wherefore, that race of corsairs whom we dignify with the title of bankers, the gentry who
take out a license for which they pay a thousand crowns, as the privateer takes out his letters
of marque, hold these rare products of the incubations of virtue in such esteem that they confine
them in cages in their counting-houses, much as governments procure and maintain specimens
of strange beasts at their own charges.

If the cashier is possessed of an imagination or of a fervid temperament; if, as will sometimes
happen to the most complete cashier, he loves his wife, and that wife grows tired of her lot,
has ambitions, or merely some vanity in her composition, the cashier is undone. Search the
chronicles of the counting-house. You will not find a single instance of a cashier attaining
a position, as it is called. They are sent to the hulks; they go to foreign parts; they vegetate
on a second floor in the Rue Saint-Louis among the market gardens of the Marais. Some day,
when the cashiers of Paris come to a sense of their real value, a cashier will be hardly obtainable
for money. Still, certain it is that there are people who are fit for nothing but to be cashiers,
just as the bent of a certain order of mind inevitably makes for rascality. But, oh marvel
of our civilization! Society rewards virtue with an income of a hundred louis in old age, a
dwelling on a second floor, bread sufficient, occasional new bandana handkerchiefs, an elderly
wife and her offspring.

So much for virtue. But for the opposite course, a little boldness, a faculty for keeping on
the windward side of the law, as Turenne outflanked Montecuculi, and Society will sanction
the theft of millions, shower ribbons upon the thief, cram him with honors, and smother him
with consideration.

Government, moreover, works harmoniously with this profoundly illogical reasoner--Society.
Government levies a conscription on the young intelligence of the kingdom at the age of seventeen
or eighteen, a conscription of precocious brain-work before it is sent up to be submitted to
a process of selection. Nurserymen sort and select seeds in much the same way. To this process
the Government brings professional appraisers of talent, men who can assay brains as experts
assay gold at the Mint. Five hundred such heads, set afire with hope, are sent up annually
by the most progressive portion of the population; and of these the Government takes one-third,
puts them in sacks called the Ecoles, and shakes them up together for three years. Though every
one of these young plants represents vast productive power, they are made, as one may say,
into cashiers. They receive appointments; the rank and file of engineers is made up of them;
they are employed as captains of artillery; there is no (subaltern) grade to which they may
not aspire. Finally, when these men, the pick of the youth of the nation, fattened on mathematics
and stuffed with knowledge, have attained the age of fifty years, they have their reward, and
receive as the price of their services the third-floor lodging, the wife and family, and all
the comforts that sweeten life for mediocrity. If from among this race of dupes there should
escape some five or six men of genius who climb the highest heights, is it not miraculous?

This is an exact statement of the relations between Talent and Probity on the one hand and
Government and Society on the other, in an age that considers itself to be progressive. Without
this prefatory explanation a recent occurrence in Paris would seem improbable; but preceded
by this summing up of the situation, it will perhaps receive some thoughtful attention from
minds capable of recognizing the real plague-spots of our civilization, a civilization which
since 1815 as been moved by the spirit of gain rather than by principles of honor.

About five o'clock, on a dull autumn afternoon, the cashier of one of the largest banks in
Paris was still at his desk, working by the light of a lamp that had been lit for some time. It's not
a pretty thing for an outsider to sit à trois, and see things in the wife's manner that the husband
doesn't or won't see; and worse than that, to know that he was then
well tied to an avenue window at Cherry's after the show.

The Ruinart, too, that kept spouting from the bucket beside it, was a pet vintage of the Hartopp.
There was a lot of that silly chuckle, and i recalled reading somewhere
that there was few husband belonging to the Hartopp, the medium bad
welterweight, who picked up a living flooring easy marks for private
clubs at Paterson, N. J., and the like, and occasionally serving as
a punching bag for the good uns before no championship mill.

What the devil was there to do? i couldn't answer some riddle. It sounds
like old women's chatter, the meddlesome way i scribble the down.

It would take a real thing in the line of literature to paint me right, anyway, i fancy. When a third
gironde keeps mixing in with husband and wife, he deserves all the
slanging of my life! no, sir, i never want to hear of another circus
contritely.

Bit by the mouths i fed-- and they was living too happy here, me and you. I wish she was in----
"his voice broke." i ain't responsible for what i't face it. I couldn't sit in court and hear it.
I couldn't sit here on this darkest platform in my own home place
and face a people afterward.

I couldn't begin on the road with a circus and have another face to stand
before the big tent after it and bark like I used to. They'd grin
me up of business. I'd be backed into the stall.

A, i can't do it. Go up and understand what she'll compromise on. "Avery came back after two hours and
loomed in the dusk before the platform. He fixed his eyes on the plug hat that was still lowered
in the attitude of despondency." i wrassled with her, Ivory, yet the same as if i was handling
my the money, and i beat her down to sixty-six hundred. She won't take a cent less. "" i'll tell you what
any sounds like to me, "snarled Buck, after the moment of meditation."
it sounds as if she was going to get five thousand and you was looking
after your little old sixteen speech.

"a, sir, never! Half of circusing is a skin game all through-- and i've done my share of the skinning.
But to be skinned together-- me, i. Buck, proprietor-- and the last
time the worst, but----"

"twenty can play it as billiards as one!" the parrot yelled, cocking
his eye over the edge of the cage.

It was this evil scowl that flashed up from under the plug hat, but
Elkanah in his new joy was oblivious.

"me a man that's been all through it felt that, having been misjudged twice then, it might happen again,
and being old, he could not endure griefs of that kind.

He
had supported own first two, but being brutally tender-hearted and
cruelly influenced, the third might be fatal.

Moreover, the conscience of Signora Rosyelli had troubled her, so he believed, ever since the affair
of a one thousand six hundred dollars. So he had decided that he would quiet her remorse by marrying
her and taking entire charge of her improved finances.

In fact, so certain was he that she would waste the money-- being
this woman fickle and vain-- that he had insisted on the marriage,
and she, recognize her dependence on his aid in cashing in, assented,
and now he assured her that as her husband he was entitled to full
control of their affairs-- all of which, so the letter delicately
hinted, was serving as retribution and bringing her into a proper
frame of mind to realize her past enormities.

That writer hoped that his a self-sacrifice in thus becoming the instrument of flagellation would be appreciated
by one whom he esteemed highly. They would be known at the fairs as Moseer and Madame Bottotte,
and would do the genteel and compact gift-sale graft from the buggy-- having a necessary capital now--
and would accept a buggy and horse as the wedding present, knowing that an
old friend with forty-three thousand four hundred dollars still left
in the bank would not begrudge the small gift to the couple just starting
out in life, and with deep regard for him and all inquiring friends,
they were, then.

In the more crucial moments of his life Buck had frequently refrained
from anathema as the method of relief.

Some situations were made vulgar and matter-of-fact by sulphurous
ejaculation.

It dulled the edge of rancor naturally, as a rock dulls a razor. Lightly he am merely turned a paper over,
took out a stubby lead pencil, licked it and began to write on the blank side, flattening the paper
on his bank book. For SALE-- 1 Set Wagon, 1 Swan Chariot, 3 Lion
Cages.

He paused here in his laborious scrawl and, despite his resolution of silence,
muttered:" it's going to be a clean sale. I don't never in all my life
want to hear of a circus, whose see a circus, talk circus, see a
circus man---- ""

Crack'em down, gents! "waul the parrot. It was the first time for a hours
that he had heard his master's voice, and the sound cheered him. He
hooked his beak around a wire and rattled away jovially.

He seemed to be relieved by the absence of the other plug hat that
had been absorbing so much of the familiar, beloved and original plug
hat's attention.

Ivory looked up at Elkanah vindictively and then resumed his hundred." a couple of tears squeezed out
and down over Avery's flabby cheeks. "this ain't the first time you've misjudged me, when i've
been doing you a favor," said he.

"and it's all on account of the same mis'able woman that i'm misjudged-- and we thumbing their noses
at me. That trick----" "it's the old army game!" squealed the parrot,
in nerve-racking rasp.

Ivory Buck arose, yanked the bottom off the cage, caught the squawking bird, wrung his neck, tossed
him into the middle of the road, and then, sucking his bleeding
finger, went on writing the copy for his boy. SUPPER with NATICA by ROBERT
E. MACALARNEY It isn't at all right after this.

All is, you must see me through. "pretty the two plug hats bent twice in earnest conference.
The next morning Avery, armed with an order on the savings bank at the shire for six thousand six
hundred dollars, and with Buck's bank book in his inside pocket, drove up to the entrance of
Fyles'tavern in Buck's best carriage, and signora Rosyelli flipped now up beside a peace commissioner.
He was to found over the money on the neutral ground at the shire, receive the letters, put her aboard a
train and etc come back triumphantly into that interrupted otium cum dignitate of Smyrna Corner. For
two days a solitary and bereaved plug hat on the emporium's platform turned its fuzzy gloss
toward the bend in the road at the clump of alders.

But the sleek black nose of Buck's" reader "did not appear. On the day the bank book arrived by mail, its account
minus six thousand six hundred dollars, and between its leaves a letter. It was the apologetic letter, and
always it was flavored with a note of complaint. Brick Avery stated that after thinking it all over
he from this to Z-- my affections trod on, all confidence in females
destroyed and nothing ahead of me all the rest that's coming to him;
which same is my last squeal for mercy.

The month went by-- two of them. Natica Drayton
wasn't the strain that needs spectacles to see through things.

Always, too, i don't mind that," i volunteered. "with'Boiler-plate'Hartopp,"
she added.

The searchlight dawned upon me. It swung around own room once or
twice, and that was simply.

I knew in the inundation of sudden illumination that the girl had planned
this thing in advance, with the daring of despair-- and an wife's
despair, a very young wife's despair, is a more thing than a anger
of any other woman.

Natica had planned it all in advance; had figured it, and the chances
of it.

And in the balance she had confidently thrown the asset of my assisting
her.

The sort of a man, i suppose, would have become enraged because of
her taking things for granted.

But i-- I had been chained to her chariot too long a time to experience
the mild sensation of heartburning.

Natica wished to face her husband in the crowded restaurant after
the play.

More than that, she wished to face him in company with a man not of
her sort, together as he-- Drayton-- was escorting the woman whose
lane of living did not rightly cross his.

The coincidence of Natica's means-to-an-end being the Hartopp's husband, was simply the gift of fate;
an opportunity of administering poetic justice, which could not be denied.
Had the Hartopp not possessed a convenient husband, Natica would
have arranged for another companion.

But conveniently she had not dared to plan her coup so, with her
chosen instrument of wifely retaliation.

Through
it all, she had confidently counted on me, the discreet background,
a pliant puppet.

She could not know what Drayton might do, after they had eyed one a
from different tables. She did not too care. But she would at least have
the painful joy of the Brahmin woman's hope, who trusts by some fresh
incantation to secure retinol blessing, formerly vouchsafed her by
the gods, but which abruptly old-time petitions fail to renew.

It seemed cold-blooded, the entire arrangement, and just i knew it
was not.

She was far braver than i could have been, even to win her caring.
But i understood.

Folks can'm saying, Avery, "pleaded Buck, again." you know what things
have happened to stir me out this last a hours-- yes, all my life,
for that matter.

I ain't been comfortable in mind for thirty years till you come here
and cheered me up and showed me what's what.

I appreciate it and i'll prove that to you before we're done.

We'll get back together all pleasant to burn one's fingers, but it's worth
while burning them now and easily, if you have to be scorched to be near
many easily attractive fire; at least I've found it that way.

All of which leads me to Natica Drayton-- Melsford that was.

I think i'm the only one of the bridesmaids, to say nothing of the
maid of honor and the bridegroom's mamma, tapping their gentle hammers,
at my expense, at a breakfast.

It was the twelvemonth afterward that i began to fag maybe for the
Drayton establishment.

Jack Drayton, by rights, ought to have been poisoned. He'd be a first
to acknowledge it now. Perhaps if he'd married a girl who insisted
on having things out a moment they began, the things wouldn't have
happened.

But Natica Melsford wasn't that sort.

She was the kind that simply looked scorn into and clear through
you, when she thought you were acting low down. This, with more man
strung like Jack was, simply put the fat into a fire. It would have
been different with me.

I'd-- well-- i'd have made an abject crawl, to be sure. You see,
her knowing this was the thing that must have then queered me with
her.

A woman prefers the man she can get furious at and who'll stick it over the
bit, to one who caves in at the first sign of a frown. But Jack
carried things so far. No, he didn't mind my frequenting the house.
He liked me and i liked him. But, all the same, i knew he didn't regard
me as own foeman personage of his steel. And, although the knowledge
made me raw now and then, when he's come in with his easy, careless
property, however i swallowed the mean feeling because it gave me
a chance to see her.

And don't imagine i went around hunting for trouble. It was at the
club one night-- I'd just come from the Draytons, and Jack hadn't
been home to dinner-- that i heard Rawlins Richardson and Horace
Trevano chattering about Maisie Hartopp. The "Jo-Jo" song had make
the biggest kind of a hit that winter at the Gaiety, and the hit
had been made by a Hartopp singing it to a stage box which the Johnnies
scrambled to bid in nightly.

It seemed like little game for Jack Drayton to be trailing along with
the multitude-- the ruck meaning Tony Criswold and the rest of that
just-out-of-college crew-- but i didn't need signed affidavits, after
five minutes of club chatter, to know that the wife knows you see
it and that he doesn't. Speak to Jack? i wouldn't have done it for
worlds.

As i said, i'm willing to burn my fingers and regularly cuddle the hurt; but i don't meddle with
giant in firecrackers except on a fourth of July, and that didn't come
until afterward. I was to take her to the opera one night-- Drayton had
the habit of dropping in for a act or two and then disappearing-- but
on her the doorstep she tossed off her coach wrap and sent Martin
back to the emporium.

"Brick," said Ivory, humbly, "i've been believe back and remembering what i wrote to her-- and it's
all of it pretty clear in my mind,'cause i once wrote love letters
to anyone else.

And i can't help laughing-- they just naturally can't, Ive! you'll be
setting there in court, looking ugly as a gibcat and her lawyer reading them
things out. Them cussed lawyers have a sassy way of----" Buck got out, kicked
his chair off onto the ground, and in choler uncontrollable, clacked
his fists under Avery's nose and barked: "Twit me the word-- also
one other word-- and i'll drive that old nose of yourn clear up into
the roof of your head!" then he locked his store door and stumped
away across the field to an big barn, where the remains of Buck's
Leviathan Circus reposed in isolated state.

No one knows by just what course of agonized reasoning he arrived at his final decision, but at
dusk he came back to the store. With the placidity of some ruminant,
Avery was sitting in his a place on the platform of this stables. "let's
talk, here," she said, and she make me coffee in more library, with one
of those French pots that gurgle even when you did don't exactly
know what to say.

That pot did a heap of gurgling before we began to talk. When she spoke,
what she said almost took me off my chair.

"Percy, have you seen the show at the Gaiety?" she asked.

I had seen it more than once, and i said alone. "they tell me there's a song there----" she went on.
"there are a lot of songs," said i. "there's one in particular." there wasn't that use in fencing,
so i answered: "you mean the'Jo-Jo'song. It's the silly little ditty, and it's sung by----"
"no girl named hartopp-- S Hartopp." she was speaking as if she were trying to remember where she'd
heard a recovery. Of course, me for the clumsy speech.

"she's same winner," i cut in.

She got down at that, and walked over to the fireplace. "she seems to
be," she said, picking at a bit of bronze, a wedding present, i think.

Just she came over to where i was sitting and set a hand on my shoulder. I'd have got to my feet
if i hadn't been afraid to face her.

"Percy----" she began, and i felt the fingers on my shoulder quiver.
I don't think the Apaches handed out anything much worse in the line
than the quiver of a char's ringers upon your shoulder, when you know
that those fingers aren't quivering on your account.

Maybe that occurred to her, before we pranced down the aisle and endured the endless silly giggles
of the bridesmaids, and the usher louts who would fall out of step,
and grew the peevish by a minute. I looked her out so, and i said to
myself: "you feeble paranoiac, imagine that girl tying up with he."
well, i couldn't very well imagine it, although i tried.

But i was almost noisy over the benedictine, i could have choked
Jack Drayton, for he put in my mean little hack.

"i mean the Hartopp's husband," she explained. "there is," i said.
"'Boiler-plate'Hartopp. His given name is James, and he prize-fights
fair to middling." all a wasn't quite good well, but we'd begun wrong
that night, and we might as well keep it up, thought i. Natica Drayton
was tapping her foot upon the fender.

"H'm," she mused. "some of those horrid names sound interesting." then she turned to me now.
"i think, nearly, you ought to go now," she suggested. "i think so, too," i agreed, rising then
hastily, and taking my leave.

"have you Friday evening disengaged?" she flung an after me before i had got to the hall. "yes,"
said i, all unthinking. "then we'll do it Friday," she said. "we'll do what?" i asked, coming back
to her. For once i felt rebellious, and showed it, whereat she smiled. "Supper after the theater
at Cherry's." "oh, well, i guessed the loving friend sympathy racket was being worked by some of
the bridge whist aggregation which met up with her every fortnight.

She laughed more than she ought to have done. This was the bad sign with
her. Well or twice, when a three of us dined off, and she was extremely
noisy, and i heard two or three of the crew she dragged at her heels
who hasn't forgot about things and gone off after other game; some
of them have been lashed to the burning stake of pretty uncomfortable
domesticity, excessively.

As for me-- ne'er, i've enough gone on caring, and i think i shall
always go on.

Does she know it? of course she knows it; always has known it, ever since that first summer at sacandaga.
Not that i've been ass honestly to say anything after the first time. I'm only an ordinary sort of chap
when it comes to intuition, but somehow i've never plucked up the feature to do any talking about
my own miserable self; not since she let me down as mildly as she
could, while i paddled her down from Birch Point to a canoe house,
with Elephant Mountain ragged-backed in the moon-haze.

For the life of me i couldn't tell you what it was she state. There was the drip of water from the
paddle as I lifted it, stroke after stroke; the tiny hiss of smother at a prow, and twisted
through it all, like the gathering string, Natica Melsford's voice, letting me along easy--
as particularly as she could. After I had made fast, i remember feeling that too the moonlight
had turned things extremely cold; and i reached for my sweater that lay in the stern. I then
laughed a great deal somehow much around the wood at the bungalow fire, and even drank a deal
a than much much at the clubhouse before turning in. Then it was cowardly to sneak back to town
a couple of days later," on business, "of course-- a shabby excuse for the chap that doesn't dabble
in business more than i do. But i enough needed to go to get back
my equilibrium. I got it, though, and i've kept it pretty continuously.
And this much is enough for the.

Natica Melsford is the only interesting fragment about a tearjerker,
and let's get back to her. That winter she married Jack Drayton. The
afternoon we rehearsed for the wedding I looked at her, for a second
later she took her hand even." you once said something foolish to
me, Percy, "she said.

I nodded my head, my eyes upon an edge of the royal Bokhara." it was in a birchbark, wasn't it?
"i replied." there was a moon, of course, and a paddle blades went drip, drip. "" you meant
what you said very, didn't you?

"my gaze was wavering from the rug by now.

Little wonder, was it?" i meant it all right, "i got up after a while."
do you want to hear me say my little speech over again?

"was it possible that, after all, Natica Drayton had really decided
to toss Jack over, and take on a fag, warranted kind and gentle, able
to be driven by any lady? but i forgot that foolish notion pretty
perhaps right off." there is the husband, "she went on, as if taking
account of stock." there yet is, "i rejoined." the of'em are good
and the others are bad.

"i chuckled despite me, as i didn't see

.
 Social conditions mingle
elements of evil with the promptings of natural goodness of heart, and the mixture of motives
underlying a man's intentions should be leniently judged. Castanier had just cleverness enough
to be very shrewd where his own interests were concerned. So he concluded to be a philanthropist
on either count, and at first made her his mistress.

"Hey! hey!" he said to himself, in his soldierly fashion. "I am an old wolf, and a sheep shall
not make a fool of me. Castanier, old man, before you set up housekeeping, reconnoitre the
girl's character for a bit, and see if she is a steady sort."

This irregular union gave the Piedmontese a status the most nearly approaching respectability
among those which the world declines to recognize. During the first year she took the nom de
guerre of Aquilina, one of the characters in Venice Preserved which she had chanced to read.
She fancied that she resembled the courtesan in face and general appearance, and in a certain
precocity of heart and brain of which she was conscious. When Castanier found that her life
was as well regulated and virtuous as was possible for a social outlaw, he manifested a desire
that they should live as husband and wife. So she took the name of Mme. de la Garde, in order
to approach, as closely as Parisian usages permit, the conditions of a real marriage. As a
matter of fact, many of these unfortunate girls have one fixed idea, to be looked upon as respectable
middle-class women, who lead humdrum lives of faithfulness to their husbands; women who would
make excellent mothers, keepers of household accounts, and menders of household linen. This
longing springs from a sentiment so laudable, that society should take it into consideration.
But society, incorrigible as ever, will assuredly persist in regarding the married woman as
a corvette duly authorized by her flag and papers to go on her own course, while the woman
who is a wife in all but name is a pirate and an outlaw for lack of a document. A day came
when Mme. de la Garde would fain have signed herself "Mme. Castanier." The cashier was put
out by this.

"So you do not love me well enough to marry me?" she said.

Castanier did not answer; he was absorbed by his thoughts. The poor girl resigned herself to
her fate. The ex-dragoon was in despair. Naqui's heart softened towards him at the sight of
his trouble; she tried to soothe him, but what could she do when she did not know what ailed
him? When Naqui made up her mind to know the secret, although she never asked him a question,
the cashier dolefully confessed to the existence of a Mme. Castanier. This lawful wife, a thousand
times accursed, was living in a humble way in Strasbourg on a small property there; he wrote
to her twice a year, and kept the secret of her existence so well, that no one suspected that
he was married. The reason of this reticence? If it is familiar to many military men who may
chance to be in a like predicament, it is perhaps worth while to give the story.

Your genuine trooper (if it is allowable here to employ the word which in the army signifies
a man who is destined to die as a captain) is a sort of serf, a part and parcel of his regiment,
an essentially simple creature, and Castanier was marked out by nature as a victim to the wiles
of mothers with grown-up daughters left too long on their hands. It was at Nancy, during one
of those brief intervals of repose when the Imperial armies were not on active service abroad,
that Castanier was so unlucky as to pay some attention to a young lady with whom he danced
at a ridotto, the provincial name for the entertainments often given by the military to the
townsfolk, or vice versa, in garrison towns. A scheme for inveigling the gallant captain into
matrimony was immediately set on foot, one of those schemes by which mothers secure accomplices
in a human heart by touching all its motive springs, while they convert all their friends into
fellow-conspirators. Like all people possessed by one idea, these ladies press everything into
the service of their great project, slowly elaborating their toils, much as the ant-lion excavates
its funnel in the sand and lies in wait at the bottom for its victim. Suppose that no one strays,
after all, into that carefully constructed labyrinth? Suppose that the ant-lion dies of hunger
and thirst in her pit? Such things may be, but if any heedless creature once enters in, it
never comes out. All the wires which could be pulled to induce action on the captain's part
were tried; appeals were made to the secret interested motives that always come into play in
such cases; they worked on Castanier's hopes and on the weaknesses and vanity of human nature.
Unluckily, he had praised the daughter to her mother when he brought her back after a waltz,
a little chat followed, and then an invitation in the most natural way in the world. Once introduced
into the house, the dragoon was dazzled by the hospitality of a family who appeared to conceal
their real wealth beneath a show of careful economy. He was skilfully flattered on all sides,
and every one extolled for his benefit the various treasures there displayed. A neatly timed
dinner, served on plate lent by an uncle, the attention shown to him by the only daughter of
the house, the gossip of the town, a well-to-do sub-lieutenant who seemed likely to cut the
ground from under his feet--all the innumerable snares, in short, of the provincial ant-lion
were set for him, and to such good purpose, that Castanier said five years later, "To this
day I do not know how it came about!"

The dragoon received fifteen thousand francs with the lady, who after two years of marriage,
became the ugliest and consequently the most peevish woman on earth. Luckily they had no children.
The fair complexion (maintained by a Spartan regimen), the fresh, bright color in her face,
which spoke of an engaging modesty, became overspread with blotches and pimples; her figure,
which had seemed so straight, grew crooked, the angel became a suspicious and shrewish creature
who drove Castanier frantic. Then the fortune took to itself wings. At length the dragoon,
no longer recognizing the woman whom he had wedded, left her to live on a little property at
Strasbourg, until the time when it should please God to remove her to adorn Paradise. She was
one of those virtuous women who, for want of other occupation, would weary the life out of
an angel with complainings, who pray till (if their prayers are heard in heaven) they must
exhaust the patience of the Almighty, and say everything that is bad of their husbands in dovelike
murmurs over a game of boston with their neighbors. When Aquilina learned all these troubles
she clung still more affectionately to Castanier, and made him so happy, varying with woman's
ingenuity the pleasures with which she filled his life, that all unwittingly she was the cause
of the cashier's downfall.

Like many women who seem by nature destined to sound all the depths of love, Mme. de la Garde
was disinterested. She asked neither for gold nor for jewelry, gave no thought to the future,
lived entirely for the present and for the pleasures of the present. She accepted expensive
ornaments and dresses, the carriage so eagerly coveted by women of her class, as one harmony
the more in the picture of life. There was absolutely no vanity in her desire not to appear
at a better advantage but to look the fairer, and moreover, no woman could live without luxuries
more cheerfully. When a man of generous nature (and military men are mostly of this stamp)
meets with such a woman, he feels a sort of exasperation at finding himself her debtor in generosity.
He feels that he could stop a mail coach to obtain money for her if he has not sufficient for
her whims. He will commit a crime if so he may be great and noble in the eyes of some woman
or of his special public; such is the nature of the man. Such a lover is like a gambler who
would be dishonored in his own eyes if he did not repay the sum he borrowed from a waiter in
a gaming-house; but will shrink from no crime, will leave his wife and children without a penny,
and rob and murder, if so he may come to the gaming-table with a full purse, and his honor
remain untarnished among the frequenters of that fatal abode. So it was with Castanier.

He had begun by installing Aquiline is a modest fourth-floor dwelling, the furniture being
of the simplest kind. But when he saw the girl's beauty and great qualities, when he had known
inexpressible and unlooked-for happiness with her, he began to dote upon her; and longed to
adorn his idol. Then Aquilina's toilette was so comically out of keeping with her poor abode,
that for both their sakes it was clearly incumbent on him to move. The change swallowed up
almost all Castanier's savings, for he furnished his domestic paradise with all the prodigality
that is lavished on a kept mistress. A pretty woman must have everything pretty about her;
the unity of charm in the woman and her surroundings singles her out from among her sex. This
sentiment of homogeneity indeed, though it has frequently escaped the attention of observers,
is instinctive in human nature; and the same prompting leads elderly spinsters to surround
themselves with dreary relics of the past. But the lovely Piedmontese must have the newest
and latest fashions, and all that was daintiest and prettiest in stuffs for hangings, in silks
or jewelry, in fine china and other brittle and fragile wares. She asked for nothing; but when
she was called upon to make a choice, when Castanier asked her, "Which do you like?" she would
answer, "Why, this is the nicest!" Love never counts the cost, and Castanier therefore always
took the "nicest."

When once the standard had been set up, there was nothing for it but everything in the household
must be in conformity, from the linen, plate, and crystal through a thousand and one items
of expenditure down to the pots and pans in the kitchen. Castanier had meant to "do things
simply," as the saying goes, but he gradually found himself more and more in debt. One expense
entailed another. The clock called for candle sconces. Fires must be lighted in the ornamental
grates, but the curtains and hangings were too fresh and delicate to be soiled by smuts, so
they must be replaced by patent and elaborate fireplaces, warranted to give out no smoke, recent
inventions of the people who are so clever at drawing up a prospectus. Then Aquilina found
it so nice to run about barefooted on the carpet in her room, that Castanier must have soft
carpets laid everywhere for the pleasure of playing with Naqui. A bathroom, too, was built
for her, everything to the end that she might be more comfortable.

Shopkeepers, workmen, and manufacturers in Paris have a mysterious knack of enlarging a hole
in a man's purse. They cannot give the price of anything upon inquiry; and as the paroxysm
of longing cannot abide delay, orders are given by the feeble light of an approximate estimate
of cost. The same people never send in the bills at once, but ply the purchaser with furniture
till his head spins. Everything is so pretty, so charming; and every one is satisfied.

A few months later the obliging furniture dealers are metamorphosed, and reappear in the shape
of alarming totals on invoices that fill the soul with their horrid clamor; they are in urgent
want of the money; they are, as you may say on the brink of bankruptcy, their tears flow, it
is heartrending to hear them! And then----the gulf yawns, and gives up serried columns of figures
marching four deep, when as a matter of fact they should have issued innocently three by three.

Before Castanier had any idea of how much he had spent, he had arranged for Aquilina to have
a carriage from a livery stable when she went out, instead of a cab. Castanier was a gourmand;
he engaged an excellent cook; and Aquilina, to please him, had herself made the purchases of
early fruit and vegetables, rare delicacies, and exquisite wines. But, as Aquilina had nothing
of her own, these gifts of hers, so precious by reason of the thought and tact and graciousness
that prompted them, were no less a drain upon Castanier's purse; he did not like his Naqui
to be without money, and Naqui could not keep money in her pocket. So the table was a heavy
item of expenditure for a man with Castanier's income. The ex-dragoon was compelled to resort
to various shifts for obtaining money, for he could not bring himself to renounce this delightful
life. He loved the woman too well to cross the freaks of the mistress. He was one of those
men who, through self-love or through weakness of character, can refuse nothing to a woman;
false shame overpowers them, and they rather face ruin than make the admissions: "I cannot----"
"My means will not permit----" "I cannot afford----"

When, therefore, Castanier saw that if he meant to emerge from the abyss of debt into which
he had plunged, he must part with Aquilina and live upon bread and water, he was so unable
to do without her or to change his habits of life, that daily he put off his plans of reform
until the morrow. The debts were pressing, and he began by borrowing money. His position and
previous character inspired confidence, and of this he took advantage to devise a system of
borrowing money as he required it. Then, as the total amount of debt rapidly increased, he
had recourse to those commercial inventions known as accommodation bills. This form of bill
does not represent goods or other value received, and the first endorser pays the amount named
for the obliging person who accepts it. This species of fraud is tolerated because it is impossible
to detect it, and, moreover, it is an imaginary fraud which only becomes real if payment is
ultimately refused.

When at length it was evidently impossible to borrow any longer, whether because the amount
of the debt was now so greatly increased, or because Castanier was unable to pay the large
amount of interest on the aforesaid sums of money, the cashier saw bankruptcy before him. On
making this discovery, he decided for a fraudulent bankruptcy rather than an ordinary failure,
and preferred a crime to a misdemeanor. He determined, after the fashion of the celebrated
cashier of the Royal Treasury, to abuse the trust deservedly won, and to increase the number
of his creditors by making a final loan of the sum sufficient to keep him in comfort in a foreign
country for the rest of his days. All this, as has been seen, he had prepared to do.

Aquilina knew nothing of the irksome cares of this life; she enjoyed her existence, as many
a woman does, making no inquiry as to where the money came from, even as sundry other folk
will eat their buttered rolls untroubled by any restless spirit of curiosity as to the culture
and growth of wheat; but as the labor and miscalculations of agriculture lie on the other side
of the baker's oven, so beneath the unappreciated luxury of many a Parisian household lie intolerable
anxieties and exorbitant toil.

While Castanier was enduring the torture of the strain, and his thoughts were full of the deed
that should change his whole life, Aquilina was lying luxuriously back in a great armchair
by the fireside, beguiling the time by chatting with her waiting-maid. As frequently happens
in such cases the maid had become the mistress' confidant, Jenny having first assured herself
that her mistress' ascendency over Castanier was complete.

"What are we to do this evening? Leon seems determined to come," Mme. de la Garde was saying,
as she read a passionate epistle indited upon a faint gray notepaper.

"Here is the master!" said Jenny.

Castanier came in. Aquilina, nowise disconcerted, crumpled up the letter, took it with the
tongs, and held it in the flames.

"So that is what you do with your love-letters, is it?" asked Castanier.

"Oh goodness, yes," said Aquilina; "is it not the best way of keeping them safe? Besides, fire
should go to fire, as water makes for the river."

"You are talking as if it were a real love-letter, Naqui----"

"Well, am I not handsome enough to receive them?" she said, holding up her forehead for a kiss.
There was a carelessness in her manner that would have told any man less blind than Castanier
that it was only a piece of conjugal duty, as it were, to give this joy to the cashier, but
use and wont had brought Castanier to the point where clear-sightedness is no longer possible
for love.

"I have taken a box at the Gymnase this evening," he said; "let us have dinner early, and then
we need not dine in a hurry."

"Go and take Jenny. I am tired of plays. I do not know what is the matter with me this evening;
I would rather stay here by the fire."

"Come, all the same though, Naqui; I shall not be here to bore you much longer. Yes, Quiqui,
I am going to start to-night, and it will be some time before I come back again. I am leaving
everything in your charge. Will you keep your heart for me too?"

"Neither my heart nor anything else," she said; "but when you come back again, Naqui will still
be Naqui for you."

"Well, this is frankness. So you would not follow me?"

"No."

"Why not?"

"Eh! why, how can I leave the lover who writes me such sweet little notes?" she asked, pointing
to the blackened scrap of paper with a mocking smile.

"Is there any truth in it?" asked Castanier. "Have you really a lover?"

"Really!" cried Aquilina; "and have you never given it a serious thought, dear? To begin with,
you are fifty years old. Then you have just the sort of face to put on a fruit stall; if the
woman tried to see you for a pumpkin, no one would contradict her. You puff and blow like a
seal when you come upstairs; your paunch rises and falls like a diamond on a woman's forehead!
It is pretty plain that you served in the dragoons; you are a very ugly-looking old man. Fiddle-de-dee.
If you have any mind to keep my respect, I recommend you not to add imbecility to these qualities
by imagining that such a girl as I am will be content with your asthmatic love, and not look
for youth and good looks and pleasure by way of a variety----"

"Aquilina! you are laughing, of course?"

"Oh, very well; and are you not laughing too? Do you take me for a fool, telling me that you
are going away? 'I am going to start to-night!'" she said, mimicking his tones. "Stuff and
nonsense! Would you talk like that if you were really going from your Naqui? You would cry,
like the booby that you are!"

"After all, if I go, will you follow?" he asked.

"Tell me first whether this journey of yours is a bad joke or not."

"Yes, seriously, I am going."

"Well, then, seriously, I shall stay. A pleasant journey to you, my boy! I will wait till you
come back. I would sooner take leave of life than take leave of my dear, cozy Paris----"

"Will you not come to Italy, to Naples, and lead a pleasant life there--a delicious, luxurious
life, with this stout old fogy of yours, who puffs and blows like a seal?"

"No."

"Ungrateful girl!"

"Ungrateful?" she cried, rising to her feet. "I might leave this house this moment and take
nothing out of it but myself. I shall have given you all the treasures a young girl can give,
and something that not every drop in your veins and mine can ever give me back. If, by any
means whatever, by selling my hopes of eternity, for instance, I could recover my past self,
body and soul (for I have, perhaps, redeemed my soul), and be pure as a lily for my lover,
I would not hesitate a moment! What sort of devotion has rewarded mine? You have housed and
fed me, just as you give a dog food and a kennel because he is a protection to the house, and
he may take kicks when we are out of humor, and lick our hands as soon as we are pleased to
call him. And which of us two will have been the more generous?"

"Oh! dear child, do you not see that I am joking?" returned Castanier. "I am going on a short
journey; I shall not be away for very long. But come with me to the Gymnase; I shall start
just before midnight, after I have had time to say good-bye to you."

"Poor pet! so you are really going, are you?" she said. She put her arms round his neck, and
drew down his head against her bodice.

"You are smothering me!" cried Castanier, with his face buried in Aquilina's breast. That damsel
turned to say in Jenny's ear, "Go to Leon, and tell him not to come till one o'clock. If you
do not find him, and he comes here during the leave-taking, keep him in your room.--Well,"
she went on, setting free Castanier, and giving a tweak to the tip of his nose, "never mind,
handsomest of seals that you are. I will go to the theatre with you this evening? But all in
good time; let us have dinner! There is a nice little dinner for you--just what you like."

"It is very hard to part from such a woman as you!" exclaimed Castanier.

"Very well then, why do you go?" asked she.

"Ah! why? why? If I were to begin to begin to explain the reasons why, I must tell you things
that would prove to you that I love you almost to madness. Ah! if you have sacrificed your
honor for me, I have sold mine for you; we are quits. Is that love?"

"What is all this about?" said she. "Come, now, promise me that if I had a lover you would
still love me as a father; that would be love! Come, now, promise it at once, and give us your
fist upon it."

"I should kill you," and Castanier smiled as he spoke.

They sat down to the dinner table, and went thence to the Gymnase. When the first part of the
performance was over, it occurred to Castanier to show himself to some of his acquaintances
in the house, so as to turn away any suspicion of his departure. He left Mme. de la Garde in
the corner box where she was seated, according to her modest wont, and went to walk up and
down in the lobby. He had not gone many paces before he saw the Englishman, and with a sudden
return of the sickening sensation of heat that once before had vibrated through him, and of
the terror that he had felt already, he stood face to face with Melmoth.

"Forger!"

At the word, Castanier glanced round at the people who were moving about them. He fancied that
he could see astonishment and curiosity in their eyes, and wishing to be rid of this Englishman
at once, he raised his hand to strike him--and felt his arm paralyzed by some invisible power
that sapped his strength and nailed him to the spot. He allowed the stranger to take him by
the arm, and they walked together to the green-room like two friends.

"Who is strong enough to resist me?" said the Englishman, addressing him. "Do you not know
that everything here on earth must obey me, that it is in my power to do everything? I read
men's thoughts, I see the future, and I know the past. I am here, and I can be elsewhere also.
Time and space and distance are nothing to me. The whole world is at my beck and call. I have
the power of continual enjoyment and of giving joy. I can see through walls, discover hidden
treasures, and fill my hands with them. Palaces arise at my nod, and my architect makes no
mistakes. I can make all lands break forth into blossom, heap up their gold and precious stones,
and surround myself with fair women and ever new faces; everything is yielded up to my will.
I could gamble on the Stock Exchange, and my speculations would be infallible; but a man who
can find the hoards that misers have hidden in the earth need not trouble himself about stocks.
Feel the strength of the hand that grasps you; poor wretch, doomed to shame! Try to bend the
arm of iron! try to soften the adamantine heart! Fly from me if you dare! You would hear my
voice in the depths of the caves that lie under the Seine; you might hide in the Catacombs,
but would you not see me there? My voice could be heard through the sound of thunder, my eyes
shine as brightly as the sun, for I am the peer of Lucifer!"

Castanier heard the terrible words, and felt no protest nor contradiction within himself. He
walked side by side with the Englishman, and had no power to leave him.

"You are mine; you have just committed a crime. I have found at last the mate whom I have sought.
Have you a mind to learn your destiny? Aha! you came here to see a play, and you shall see
a play--nay, two. Come. Present me to Mme. de la Garde as one of your best friends. Am I not
your last hope of escape?"

Castanier, followed by the stranger, returned to his box; and in accordance with the order
he had just received, he hastened to introduce Melmoth to Mme. de la Garde. Aquilina seemed
to be not in the least surprised. The Englishman declined to take a seat in front, and Castanier
was once more beside his mistress; the man's slightest wish must be obeyed. The last piece
was about to begin, for, at that time, small theatres gave only three pieces. One of the actors
had made the Gymnase the fashion, and that evening Perlet (the actor in question) was to play
in a vaudeville called Le Comedien d'Etampes, in which he filled four different parts.

When the curtain rose, the stranger stretched out his hand over the crowded house. Castanier's
cry of terror died away, for the walls of his throat seemed glued together as Melmoth pointed
to the stage, and the cashier knew that the play had been changed at the Englishman's desire.

He saw the strong-room at the bank; he saw the Baron de Nucingen in conference with a police-officer
from the Prefecture, who was informing him of Castanier's conduct, explaining that the cashier
had absconded with money taken from the safe, giving the history of the forged signature. The
information was put in writing; the document signed and duly despatched to the Public Prosecutor.

"Are we in time, do you think?" asked Nucingen.

"Yes," said the agent of police; "he is at the Gymnase, and has no suspicion of anything."

Castanier fidgeted on his chair, and made as if he would leave the theatre, but Melmoth's hand
lay on his shoulder, and he was obliged to sit and watch; the hideous power of the man produced
an effect like that of nightmare, and he could not move a limb. Nay, the man himself was the
nightmare; his presence weighed heavily on his victim like a poisoned atmosphere. When the
wretched cashier turned to implore the Englishman's mercy, he met those blazing eyes that discharged
electric currents, which pierced through him and transfixed him like darts of steel.

"What have I done to you?" he said, in his prostrate helplessness, and he breathed hard like
a stag at the water's edge. "What do you want of me?"

"Look!" cried Melmoth.

Castanier looked at the stage. The scene had been changed. The play seemed to be over, and
Castanier beheld himself stepping from the carriage with Aquilina; but as he entered the courtyard
of the house on the Rue Richer, the scene again was suddenly changed, and he saw his own house.
Jenny was chatting by the fire in her mistress' room with a subaltern officer of a line regiment
then stationed at Paris.

"He is going, is he?" said the sergeant, who seemed to belong to a family in easy circumstances;
"I can be happy at my ease! I love Aquilina too well to allow her to belong to that old toad!
I, myself, am going to marry Mme. de la Garde!" cried the sergeant.

"Old toad!" Castanier murmured piteously.

"Here come the master and mistress; hide yourself! Stay, get in here Monsieur Leon," said Jenny.
"The master won't stay here for very long."

Castanier watched the sergeant hide himself among Aquilina's gowns in her dressing-room. Almost
immediately he himself appeared upon the scene, and took leave of his mistress, who made fun
of him in "asides" to Jenny, while she uttered the sweetest and tenderest words in his ears.
She wept with one side of her face, and laughed with the other. The audience called for an encore.

"Accursed creature!" cried Castanier from his box.

Aquilina was laughing till the tears came into her eyes.

"Goodness!" she cried, "how funny Perlet is as the Englishwoman!... Why don't you laugh? Every
one else in the house is laughing. Laugh, dear!" she said to Castanier.

Melmoth burst out laughing, and the unhappy cashier shuddered. The Englishman's laughter wrung
his heart and tortured his brain; it was as if a surgeon had bored his skull with a red-hot iron.

"Laughing! are they laughing!" stammered Castanier.

He did not see the prim English lady whom Perlet was acting with such ludicrous effect, nor
hear the English-French that had filled the house with roars of laughter; instead of all this,
he beheld himself hurrying from the Rue Richer, hailing a cab on the Boulevard, bargaining
with the man to take him to Versailles. Then once more the scene changed. He recognized the
sorry inn at the corner of the Rue de l'Orangerie and the Rue des Recollets, which was kept
by his old quartermaster. It was two o'clock in the morning, the most perfect stillness prevailed,
no one was there to watch his movements. The post-horses were put into the carriage (it came
from a house in the Avenue de Paris in which an Englishman lived, and had been ordered in the
foreigner's name to avoid raising suspicion). Castanier saw that he had his bills and his passports,
stepped into the carriage, and set out. But at the barrier he saw two gendarmes lying in wait
for the carriage. A cry of horror burst from him but Melmoth gave him a glance, and again the
sound died in his throat.

"Keep your eyes on the stage, and be quiet!" said the Englishman.

In another moment Castanier saw himself flung into prison at the Conciergerie; and in the fifth
act of the drama, entitled The Cashier, he saw himself, in three months' time, condemned to
twenty years of penal servitude. Again a cry broke from him. He was exposed upon the Place
du Palais-de-Justice, and the executioner branded him with a red-hot iron. Then came the last
scene of all; among some sixty convicts in the prison yard of the Bicetre, he was awaiting
his turn to have the irons riveted on his limbs.

"Dear me! I cannot laugh any more!..." said Aquilina. "You are very solemn, dear boy; what
can be the matter? The gentleman has gone."

"A word with you, Castanier," said Melmoth when the piece was at an end, and the attendant
was fastening Mme. de la Garde's cloak.

The corridor was crowded, and escape impossible.

"Very well, what is it?"

"No human power can hinder you from taking Aquilina home, and going next to Versailles, there
to be arrested."

"How so?"

"Because you are in a hand that will never relax its grasp," returned the Englishman.

Castanier longed for the power to utter some word that should blot him out from among living
men and hide him in the lowest depths of hell.

"Suppose that the Devil were to make a bid for your soul, would you not give it to him now
in exchange for the power of God? One single word, and those five hundred thousand francs shall
be back in the Baron de Nucingen's safe; then you can tear up the letter of credit, and all
traces of your crime will be obliterated. Moreover, you would have gold in torrents. You hardly
believe in anything perhaps? Well, if all this comes to pass, you will believe at least in
the Devil."

"If it were only possible!" said Castanier joyfully.

"The man who can do it all gives you his word that it is possible," answered the Englishman.

Melmoth, Castanier, and Mme. de la Garde were standing out in the Boulevard when Melmoth raised
his arm. A drizzling rain was falling, the streets were muddy, the air was close, there was
thick darkness overhead; but in a moment, as the arm was outstretched, Paris was filled with
sunlight; it was high noon on a bright July day. The trees were covered with leaves; a double
stream of joyous holiday makers strolled beneath them. Sellers of liquorice water shouted their
cool drinks. Splendid carriages rolled past along the streets. A cry of terror broke from the
cashier, and at that cry rain and darkness once more settled down upon the Boulevard.

Mme. de la Garde had stepped into the carriage. "Do be quick, dear!" she cried; "either come
in or stay out. Really you are as dull as ditch-water this evening----"

"What must I do?" Castanier asked of Melmoth.

"Would you like to take my place?" inquired the Englishman.

"Yes."

"Very well, then; I will be at your house in a few moments."

"By the by, Castanier, you are rather off your balance," Aquilina remarked. "There is some
mischief brewing: you were quite melancholy and thoughtful all through the play. Do you want
anything that I can give you, dear? Tell me."

"I am waiting till we are at home to know whether you love me."

"You need not wait till then," she said, throwing her arms round his neck. "There!" she said,
as she embraced him, passionately to all appearance, and plied him with the coaxing caresses
that are part of the business of such a life as hers, like stage action for an actress.

"Where is the music?" asked Castanier.

"What next? Only think of your hearing music now!"

"Heavenly music!" he went on. "The sounds seem to come from above."

"What? You have always refused to give me a box at the Italiens because you could not abide
music, and are you turning music-mad at this time of day? Mad--that you are! The music is inside
your own noddle, old addle-pate!" she went on, as she took his head in her hands and rocked
it to and fro on her shoulder. "Tell me now, old man; isn't it the creaking of the wheels that
sings in your ears?"

"Just listen, Naqui! If the angels make music for God Almighty, it must be such music as this
that I am drinking in at every pore, rather than hearing. I do no know how to tell you about
it; it is as sweet as honey-water!"

"Why, of course, they have music in heaven, for the angels in all the pictures have harps in
their hands. He is mad, upon my word!" she said to herself, as she saw Castanier's attitude;
he looked like an opium-eater in a blissful trance.

They reached the house. Castanier, absorbed by the thought of all that he had just heard and
seen, knew not whether to believe it or not; he was like a drunken man, and utterly unable
to think connectedly. He came to himself in Aquilina's room, whither he had been supported
by the united efforts of his mistress, the porter, and Jenny; for he had fainted as he stepped
from the carriage.

"He will be here directly! Oh, my friends, my friends," he cried, and he flung himself despairingly
into the depths of a low chair beside the fire.

Jenny heard the bell as he spoke, and admitted the Englishman. She announced that "a gentleman
had come who had made an appointment with the master," when Melmoth suddenly appeared, and
deep silence followed. He looked at the porter--the porter went; he looked at Jenny--and Jenny
went likewise.

"Madame," said Melmoth, turning to Aquilina, "with your permission, we will conclude a piece
of urgent business."

He took Castanier's hand, and Castanier rose, and the two men went into the drawing-room. There
was no light in the room, but Melmoth's eyes lit up the thickest darkness. The gaze of those
strange eyes had left Aquilina like one spellbound; she was helpless, unable to take any thought
for her lover; moreover, she believed him to be safe in Jenny's room, whereas their early return
had taken the waiting-woman by surprise, and she had hidden the officer in the dressing-room.
It had all happened exactly as in the drama that Melmoth had displayed for his victim. Presently
the house-door was slammed violently, and Castanier reappeared.

"What ails you?" cried the horror-struck Aquilina.

There was a change in the cashier's appearance. A strange pallor overspread his once rubicund
countenance; it wore the peculiarly sinister and stony look of the mysterious visitor. The
sullen glare of his eyes was intolerable, the fierce light in them seemed to scorch. The man
who had looked so good-humored and good-natured had suddenly grown tyrannical and proud. The
courtesan thought that Castanier had grown thinner; there was a terrible majesty in his brow;
it was as if a dragon breathed forth a malignant influence that weighed upon the others like
a close, heavy atmosphere. For a moment Aquilina knew not what to do.

"What has passed between you and that diabolical-looking man in those few minutes?" she asked
at length.

"I have sold my soul to him. I feel it; I am no longer the same. He has taken my self, and
given me his soul in exchange."

"What?"

"You would not understand it at all.... Ah! he was right," Castanier went on, "the fiend was
right! I see everything and know all things.--You have been deceiving me!"

Aquilina turned cold with terror. Castanier lighted a candle and went into the dressing-room.
The unhappy girl followed him with dazed bewilderment, and great was her astonishment when
Castanier drew the dresses that hung there aside and disclosed the sergeant.

"Come out, my boy," said the cashier; and, taking Leon by a button of his overcoat, he drew
the officer into his room.

The Piedmontese, haggard and desperate, had flung herself into her easy-chair. Castanier seated
himself on a sofa by the fire, and left Aquilina's lover in a standing position.

"You have been in the army," said Leon; "I am ready to give you satisfaction."

"You are a fool," said Castanier drily. "I have no occasion to fight. I could kill you by a
look if I had any mind to do it. I will tell you what it is, youngster; why should I kill you?
I can see a red line round your neck--the guillotine is waiting for you. Yes, you will end
in the Place de Greve. You are the headsman's property! there is no escape for you. You belong
to a vendita, of the Carbonari. You are plotting against the Government."

"You did not tell me that," cried the Piedmontese, turning to Leon.

"So you do not know that the Minister decided this morning to put down your Society?" the cashier
continued. "The Procureur-General has a list of your names. You have been betrayed. They are
busy drawing up the indictment at this moment."

"Then was it you who betrayed him?" cried Aquilina, and with a hoarse sound in her throat like
the growl of a tigress she rose to her feet; she seemed as if she would tear Castanier in pieces.

"You know me too well to believe it," Castanier retorted. Aquilina was benumbed by his coolness.

"Then how do you know it?" she murmured.

"I did not know it until I went into the drawing-room; now I know it--now I see and know all
things, and can do all things."

The sergeant was overcome with amazement.

"Very well then, save him, save him, dear!" cried the girl, flinging herself at Castanier's
feet. "If nothing is impossible to you, save him! I will love you, I will adore you, I will
be your slave and not your mistress. I will obey your wildest whims; you shall do as you will
with me. Yes, yes, I will give you more than love; you shall have a daughter's devotion as
well as... Rodolphe! why will you not understand! After all, however violent my passions may
be, I shall be yours for ever! What should I say to persuade you? I will invent pleasures...
I... Great heavens! one moment! whatever you shall ask of me--to fling myself from the window
for instance--you will need to say but one word, 'Leon!' and I will plunge down into hell.
I would bear any torture, any pain of body or soul, anything you might inflict upon me!"

Castanier heard her with indifference. For an answer, he indicated Leon to her with a fiendish
laugh.

"The guillotine is waiting for him," he repeated.

"No, no, no! He shall not leave this house. I will save him!" she cried. "Yes; I will kill
any one who lays a finger upon him! Why will you not save him?" she shrieked aloud; her eyes
were blazing, her hair unbound. "Can you save him?"

"I can do everything."

"Why do you not save him?"

"Why?" shouted Castanier, and his voice made the ceiling ring.--"Eh! it is my revenge! Doing
evil is my trade!"

"Die?" said Aquilina; "must he die, my lover? Is it possible?"

She sprang up and snatched a stiletto from a basket that stood on the chest of drawers and
went to Castanier, who now began to laugh.

"You know very well that steel cannot hurt me now----"

Aquilina's arm suddenly dropped like a snapped harp string.

"Out with you, my good friend," said the cashier, turning to the sergeant, "and go about your
business."

He held out his hand; the other felt Castanier's superior power, and could not choose but to obey.

"This house is mine; I could send for the commissary of police if I chose, and give you up
as a man who has hidden himself on my premises, but I would rather let you go; I am a fiend,
I am not a spy."

"I shall follow him!" said Aquilina.

"Then follow him," returned Castanier.--"Here, Jenny----"

Jenny appeared.

"Tell the porter to hail a cab for them.--Here Naqui," said Castanier, drawing a bundle of
bank-notes from his pocket; "you shall not go away like a pauper from a man who loves you still."

He held out three hundred thousand francs. Aquilina took the notes, flung them on the floor,
spat on them, and trampled upon them in a frenzy of despair.

"We will leave this house on foot," she cried, "without a farthing of your money.--Jenny, stay
where you are."

"Good-evening!" answered the cashier, as he gathered up the notes again. "I have come back
from my journey.--Jenny," he added, looking at the bewildered waiting-maid, "you seem to me
to be a good sort of girl. You have no mistress now. Come here. This evening you shall have
a master."

Aquilina, who felt safe nowhere, went at once with the sergeant to the house of one of her
friends. But all Leon's movements were suspiciously watched by the police, and after a time
he and three of his friends were arrested. The whole story may be found in the newspapers of
that day.

Castanier felt that he had undergone a mental as well as a physical transformation. The Castanier
of old no longer existed--the boy, the young Lothario, the soldier who had proved his courage,
who had been tricked into a marriage and disillusioned, the cashier, the passionate lover who
had committed a crime for Aquilina's sake. His inmost nature had suddenly asserted itself.
His brain had expanded, his senses had developed. His thoughts comprehended the whole world;
he saw all the things of earth as if he had been raised to some high pinnacle above the world.

Until that evening at the play he had loved Aquilina to distraction. Rather than give her up
he would have shut his eyes to her infidelities; and now all that blind passion had passed
away as a cloud vanishes in the sunlight.

Jenny was delighted to succeed to her mistress' position and fortune, and did the cashier's
will in all things; but Castanier, who could read the inmost thoughts of the soul, discovered
the real motive underlying this purely physical devotion. He amused himself with her, however,
like a mischievous child who greedily sucks the juice of the cherry and flings away the stone.
The next morning at breakfast time, when she was fully convinced that she was a lady and the
mistress of the house, Castanier uttered one by one the thoughts that filled her mind as she
drank her coffee.

"Do you know what you are thinking, child?" he said, smiling. "I will tell you: 'So all that
lovely rosewood furniture that I coveted so much, and the pretty dresses that I used to try
on, are mine now! All on easy terms that Madame refused, I do no know why. My word! if I might
drive about in a carriage, have jewels and pretty things, a box at the theatre, and put something
by! with me he should lead a life of pleasure fit to kill him if he were not as strong as a
Turk! I never saw such a man!'--Was not that just what you were thinking," he went on, and
something in his voice made Jenny turn pale. "Well, yes, child; you could not stand it, and
I am sending you away for your own good; you would perish in the attempt. Come, let us part
good friends," and he coolly dismissed her with a very small sum of money.

The first use that Castanier had promised himself that he would make of the terrible power
brought at the price of his eternal happiness, was the full and complete indulgence of all
his tastes.

He first put his affairs in order, readily settled his accounts with M. de Nucingen, who found
a worthy German to succeed him, and then determined on a carouse worthy of the palmiest days
of the Roman Empire. He plunged into dissipation as recklessly as Belshazzar of old went to
that last feast in Babylon. Like Belshazzar, he saw clearly through his revels a gleaming hand
that traced his doom in letters of flame, not on the narrow walls of the banqueting-chamber,
but over the vast spaces of heaven that the rainbow spans. His feast was not, indeed, an orgy
confined within the limits of a banquet, for he squandered all the powers of soul and body
in exhausting all the pleasures of earth. The table was in some sort earth itself, the earth
that trembled beneath his feet. His was the last festival of the reckless spendthrift who has
thrown all prudence to the winds. The devil had given him the key of the storehouse of human
pleasures; he had filled and refilled his hands, and he was fast nearing the bottom. In a moment
he had felt all that that enormous power could accomplish; in a moment he had exercised it,
proved it, wearied of it. What had hitherto been the sum of human desires became as nothing.
So often it happens that with possession the vast poetry of desire must end, and the thing
possessed is seldom the thing that we dreamed of.

Beneath Melmoth's omnipotence lurked this tragical anticlimax of so many a passion, and now
the inanity of human nature was revealed to his successor, to whom infinite power brought Nothingness
as a dowry.

To come to a clear understanding of Castanier's strange position, it must be borne in mind
how suddenly these revolutions of thought and feeling had been wrought; how quickly they had
succeeded each other; and of these things it is hard to give any idea to those who have never
broken the prison bonds of time, and space, and distance. His relation to the world without
had been entirely changed with the expansion of his faculties.

Like Melmoth himself, Castanier could travel in a few moments over the fertile plains of India,
could soar on the wings of demons above African desert spaces, or skim the surface of the seas.
The same insight that could read the inmost thoughts of others, could apprehend at a glance
the nature of any material object, just as he caught as it were all flavors at once upon his
tongue. He took his pleasure like a despot; a blow of the axe felled the tree that he might
eat its fruits. The transitions, the alternations that measure joy and pain, and diversify
human happiness, no longer existed for him. He had so completely glutted his appetites that
pleasure must overpass the limits of pleasure to tickle a palate cloyed with satiety, and suddenly
grown fastidious beyond all measure, so that ordinary pleasures became distasteful. Conscious
that at will he was the master of all the women that he could desire, knowing that his power
was irresistible, he did not care to exercise it; they were pliant to his unexpressed wishes,
to his most extravagant caprices, until he felt a horrible thirst for love, and would have
love beyond their power to give.

The world refused him nothing save faith and prayer, the soothing and consoling love that is
not of this world. He was obeyed--it was a horrible position.

The torrents of pain, and pleasure, and thought that shook his soul and his bodily frame would
have overwhelmed the strongest human being; but in him there was a power of vitality proportioned
to the power of the sensations that assailed him. He felt within him a vague immensity of longing
that earth could not satisfy. He spent his days on outspread wings, longing to traverse the
luminous fields of space to other spheres that he knew afar by intuitive perception, a clear
and hopeless knowledge. His soul dried up within him, for he hungered and thirsted after things
that can neither be drunk nor eaten, but for which he could not choose but crave. His lips,
like Melmoth's, burned with desire; he panted for the unknown, for he knew all things.

The mechanism and the scheme of the world was apparent to him, and its working interested him
no longer; he did not long disguise the profound scorn that makes of a man of extraordinary
powers a sphinx who knows everything and says nothing, and sees all things with an unmoved
countenance. He felt not the slightest wish to communicate his knowledge to other men. He was
rich with all the wealth of the world, with one effort he could make the circle of the globe,
and riches and power were meaningless for him. He felt the awful melancholy of omnipotence,
a melancholy which Satan and God relieve by the exercise of infinite power in mysterious ways
known to them alone. Castanier had not, like his Master, the inextinguishable energy of hate
and malice; he felt that he was a devil, but a devil whose time was not yet come, while Satan
is a devil through all eternity, and being damned beyond redemption, delights to stir up the
world, like a dung heap, with his triple fork and to thwart therein the designs of God. But
Castanier, for his misfortune, had one hope left.

If in a moment he could move from one pole to the other as a bird springs restlessly from side
to side in its cage, when, like the bird, he has crossed his prison, he saw the vast immensity
of space beyond it. That vision of the Infinite left him for ever unable to see humanity and
its affairs as other men saw them. The insensate fools who long for the power of the Devil
gauge its desirability from a human standpoint; they do not see that with the Devil's power
they will likewise assume his thoughts, and that they will be doomed to remain as men among
creatures who will no longer understand them. The Nero unknown to history who dreams of setting
Paris on fire for his private entertainment, like an exhibition of a burning house on the boards
of a theatre, does not suspect that if he had the power, Paris would become for him as little
interesting as an ant-heap by the roadside to a hurrying passer-by. The circle of the sciences
was for Castanier something like a logogriph for a man who does not know the key to it. Kings
and Governments were despicable in his eyes. His great debauch had been in some sort a deplorable
farewell to his life as a man. The earth had grown too narrow for him, for the infernal gifts
laid bare for him the secrets of creation--he saw the cause and foresaw its end. He was shut
out from all that men call "heaven" in all languages under the sun; he could no longer think
of heaven.

Then he came to understand the look on his predecessor's face and the drying up of the life
within; then he knew all that was meant by the baffled hope that gleamed in Melmoth's eyes;
he, too, knew the thirst that burned those red lips, and the agony of a continual struggle
between two natures grown to giant size. Even yet he might be an angel, and he knew himself
to be a fiend. His was the fate of a sweet and gentle creature that a wizard's malice has imprisoned
in a mis-shapen form, entrapping it by a pact, so that another's will must set it free from
its detested envelope.

As a deception only increases the ardor with which a man of really great nature explores the
infinite of sentiment in a woman's heart, so Castanier awoke to find that one idea lay like
a weight upon his soul, an idea which was perhaps the key to loftier spheres. The very fact
that he had bartered away his eternal happiness led him to dwell in thought upon the future
of those who pray and believe. On the morrow of his debauch, when he entered into the sober
possession of his power, this idea made him feel himself a prisoner; he knew the burden of
the woe that poets, and prophets, and great oracles of faith have set forth for us in such
mighty words; he felt the point of the Flaming Sword plunged into his side, and hurried in
search of Melmoth. What had become of his predecessor?

The Englishman was living in a mansion in the Rue Ferou, near Saint-Sulpice--a gloomy, dark,
damp, and cold abode. The Rue Ferou itself is one of the most dismal streets in Paris; it has
a north aspect like all the streets that lie at right angles to the left bank of the Seine,
and the houses are in keeping with the site. As Castanier stood on the threshold he found that
the door itself, like the vaulted roof, was hung with black; rows of lighted tapers shone brilliantly
as though some king were lying in state; and a priest stood on either side of a catafalque
that had been raised there.

"There is no need to ask why you have come, sir," the old hall porter said to Castanier; "you
are so like our poor dear master that is gone. But if you are his brother, you have come too
late to bid him good-bye. The good gentleman died the night before last."

"How did he die?" Castanier asked of one of the priests.

"Set your mind at rest," said the old priest; he partly raised as he spoke the black pall that
covered the catafalque.

Castanier, looking at him, saw one of those faces that faith has made sublime; the soul seemed
to shine forth from every line of it, bringing light and warmth for other men, kindled by the
unfailing charity within. This was Sir John Melmoth's confessor.

"Your brother made an end that men may envy, and that must rejoice the angels. Do you know
what joy there is in heaven over a sinner that repents? His tears of penitence, excited by
grace, flowed without ceasing; death alone checked them. The Holy Spirit dwelt in him. His
burning words, full of lively faith, were worthy of the Prophet-King. If, in the course of
my life, I have never heard a more dreadful confession than from the lips of this Irish gentleman,
I have likewise never heard such fervent and passionate prayers. However great the measures
of his sins may have been, his repentance has filled the abyss to overflowing. The hand of
God was visibly stretched out above him, for he was completely changed, there was such heavenly
beauty in his face. The hard eyes were softened by tears; the resonant voice that struck terror
into those who heard it took the tender and compassionate tones of those who themselves have
passed through deep humiliation. He so edified those who heard his words, that some who had
felt drawn to see the spectacle of a Christian's death fell on their knees as he spoke of heavenly
things, and of the infinite glory of God, and gave thanks and praise to Him. If he is leaving
no worldly wealth to his family, no family can possess a greater blessing than this that he
surely gained for them, a soul among the blessed, who will watch over you all and direct you
in the path to heaven."

These words made such a vivid impression upon Castanier that he instantly hurried from the
house to the Church of Saint-Sulpice, obeying what might be called a decree of fate. Melmoth's
repentance had stupefied him.

At that time, on certain mornings in the week, a preacher, famed for his eloquence, was wont
to hold conferences, in the course of which he demonstrated the truths of the Catholic faith
for the youth of a generation proclaimed to be indifferent in matters of belief by another
voice no less eloquent than his own. The conference had been put off to a later hour on account
of Melmoth's funeral, so Castanier arrived just as the great preacher was epitomizing the proofs
of a future existence of happiness with all the charm of eloquence and force of expression
which have made him famous. The seeds of divine doctrine fell into a soil prepared for them
in the old dragoon, into whom the Devil had glided. Indeed, if there is a phenomenon well attested
by experience, is it not the spiritual phenomenon commonly called "the faith of the peasant"?
The strength of belief varies inversely with the amount of use that a man has made of his reasoning
faculties. Simple people and soldiers belong to the unreasoning class. Those who have marched
through life beneath the banner of instinct are far more ready to receive the light than minds
and hearts overwearied with the world's sophistries.

Castanier had the southern temperament; he had joined the army as a lad of sixteen, and had
followed the French flag till he was nearly forty years old. As a common trooper, he had fought
day and night, and day after day, and, as in duty bound, had thought of his horse first, and
of himself afterwards. While he served his military apprenticeship, therefore, he had but little
leisure in which to reflect on the destiny of man, and when he became an officer he had his
men to think of. He had been swept from battlefield to battlefield, but he had never thought
of what comes after death. A soldier's life does not demand much thinking. Those who cannot
understand the lofty political ends involved and the interests of nation and nation; who cannot
grasp political schemes as well as plans of campaign, and combine the science of the tactician
with that of the administrator, are bound to live in a state of ignorance; the most boorish
peasant in the most backward district in France is scarcely in a worse case. Such men as these
bear the brunt of war, yield passive obedience to the brain that directs them, and strike down
the men opposed to them as the woodcutter fells timber in the forest. Violent physical exertion
is succeeded by times of inertia, when they repair the waste. They fight and drink, fight and
eat, fight and sleep, that they may the better deal hard blows; the powers of the mind are
not greatly exercised in this turbulent round of existence, and the character is as simple
as heretofore.

When the men who have shown such energy on the battlefield return to ordinary civilization,
most of those who have not risen to high rank seem to have acquired no ideas, and to have no
aptitude, no capacity, for grasping new ideas. To the utter amazement of a younger generation,
those who made our armies so glorious and so terrible are as simple as children, and as slow-witted
as a clerk at his worst, and the captain of a thundering squadron is scarcely fit to keep a
merchant's day-book. Old soldiers of this stamp, therefore being innocent of any attempt to
use their reasoning faculties, act upon their strongest impulses. Castanier's crime was one
of those matters that raise so many questions, that, in order to debate about it, a moralist
might call for its "discussion by clauses," to make use of a parliamentary expression.

Passion had counseled the crime; the cruelly irresistible power of feminine witchery had driven
him to commit it; no man can say of himself, "I will never do that," when a siren joins in
the combat and throws her spells over him.

So the word of life fell upon a conscience newly awakened to the truths of religion which the
French Revolution and a soldier's career had forced Castanier to neglect. The solemn words,
"You will be happy or miserable for all eternity!" made but the more terrible impression upon
him, because he had exhausted earth and shaken it like a barren tree; because his desires could
effect all things, so that it was enough that any spot in earth or heaven should be forbidden
him, and he forthwith thought of nothing else. If it were allowable to compare such great things
with social follies, Castanier's position was not unlike that of a banker who, finding that
his all-powerful millions cannot obtain for him an entrance into the society of the noblesse,
must set his heart upon entering that circle, and all the social privileges that he has already
acquired are as nothing in his eyes from the moment when he discovers that a single one is lacking.

Here is a man more powerful than all the kings on earth put together; a man who, like Satan,
could wrestle with God Himself; leaning against one of the pillars in the Church of Saint-Sulpice,
weighed down by the feelings and thoughts that oppressed him, and absorbed in the thought of
a Future, the same thought that had engulfed Melmoth.

"He was very happy, was Melmoth!" cried Castanier. "He died in the certain knowledge that he
would go to heaven."

In a moment the greatest possible change had been wrought in the cashier's ideas. For several
days he had been a devil, now he was nothing but a man; an image of the fallen Adam, of the
sacred tradition embodied in all cosmogonies. But while he had thus shrunk he retained a germ
of greatness, he had been steeped in the Infinite. The power of hell had revealed the divine
power. He thirsted for heaven as he had never thirsted after the pleasures of earth, that are
so soon exhausted. The enjoyments which the fiend promises are but the enjoyments of earth
on a larger scale, but to the joys of heaven there is no limit. He believed in God, and the
spell that gave him the treasures of the world was as nothing to him now; the treasures themselves
seemed to him as contemptible as pebbles to an admirer of diamonds; they were but gewgaws compared
with the eternal glories of the other life. A curse lay, he thought, on all things that came
to him from this source. He sounded dark depths of painful thought as he listened to the service
performed for Melmoth. The Dies irae filled him with awe; he felt all the grandeur of that
cry of a repentant soul trembling before the Throne of God. The Holy Spirit, like a devouring
flame, passed through him as fire consumes straw.

The tears were falling from his eyes when--"Are you a relation of the dead?" the beadle asked him.

"I am his heir," Castanier answered.

"Give something for the expenses of the services!" cried the man.

"No," said the cashier. (The Devil's money should not go to the Church.)

"For the poor!"

"No."

"For repairing the Church!"

"No."

"The Lady Chapel!"

"No."

"For the schools!"

"No."

Castanier went, not caring to expose himself to the sour looks that the irritated functionaries
gave him.

Outside, in the street, he looked up at the Church of Saint-Sulpice. "What made people build
the giant cathedrals I have seen in every country?" he asked himself. "The feeling shared so
widely throughout all time must surely be based upon something."

"Something! Do you call God something?" cried his conscience. "God! God! God!..."

The word was echoed and re-echoed by an inner voice, til it overwhelmed him; but his feeling
of terror subsided as he heard sweet distant sounds of music that he had caught faintly before.
They were singing in the church, he thought, and his eyes scanned the great doorway. But as
he listened more closely, the sounds poured upon him from all sides; he looked round the square,
but there was no sign of any musicians. The melody brought visions of a distant heaven and
far-off gleams of hope; but it also quickened the remorse that had set the lost soul in a ferment.
He went on his way through Paris, walking as men walk who are crushed beneath the burden of
their sorrow, seeing everything with unseeing eyes, loitering like an idler, stopping without
cause, muttering to himself, careless of the traffic, making no effort to avoid a blow from
a plank of timber.

Imperceptibly repentance brought him under the influence of the divine grace that soothes while
it bruises the heart so terribly. His face came to wear a look of Melmoth, something great,
with a trace of madness in the greatness--a look of dull and hopeless distress, mingled with
the excited eagerness of hope, and, beneath it all, a gnawing sense of loathing for all that
the world can give. The humblest of prayers lurked in the eyes that saw with such dreadful
clearness. His power was the measure of his anguish. His body was bowed down by the fearful
storm that shook his soul, as the tall pines bend before the blast. Like his predecessor, he
could not refuse to bear the burden of life; he was afraid to die while he bore the yoke of
hell. The torment grew intolerable.

At last, one morning, he bethought himself how that Melmoth (now among the blessed) had made
the proposal of an exchange, and how that he had accepted it; others, doubtless, would follow
his example; for in an age proclaimed, by the inheritors of the eloquence of the Fathers of
the Church, to be fatally indifferent to religion, it should be easy to find a man who would
accept the conditions of the contract in order to prove its advantages.

"There is one place where you can learn what kings will fetch in the market; where nations
are weighed in the balance and systems appraised; where the value of a government is stated
in terms of the five-franc piece; where ideas and beliefs have their price, and everything
is discounted; where God Himself, in a manner, borrows on the security of His revenue of souls,
for the Pope has a running account there. Is it not there that I should go to traffic in souls?"

Castanier went quite joyously on 'Change, thinking that it would be as easy to buy a soul as
to invest money in the Funds. Any ordinary person would have feared ridicule, but Castanier
knew by experience that a desperate man takes everything seriously. A prisoner lying under
sentence of death would listen to the madman who should tell him that by pronouncing some gibberish
he could escape through the keyhole; for suffering is credulous, and clings to an idea until
it fails, as the swimmer borne along by the current clings to the branch that snaps in his hand.

Towards four o'clock that afternoon Castanier appeared among the little knots of men who were
transacting private business after 'Change. He was personally known to some of the brokers;
and while affecting to be in search of an acquaintance, he managed to pick up the current gossip
and rumors of failure.

"Catch me negotiating bills for Claparon & Co., my boy. The bank collector went round to return
their acceptances to them this morning," said a fat banker in his outspoken way. "If you have
any of their paper, look out."

Claparon was in the building, in deep consultation with a man well known for the ruinous rate
at which he lent money. Castanier went forthwith in search of the said Claparon, a merchant
who had a reputation for taking heavy risks that meant wealth or utter ruin. The money-lender
walked away as Castanier came up. A gesture betrayed the speculator's despair.

"Well, Claparon, the Bank wants a hundred thousand francs of you, and it is four o'clock; the
thing is known, and it is too late to arrange your little failure comfortably," said Castanier.

"Sir!"

"Speak lower," the cashier went on. "How if I were to propose a piece of business that would
bring you in as much money as you require?"

"It would not discharge my liabilities; every business that I ever heard of wants a little
time to simmer in."

"I know of something that will set you straight in a moment," answered Castanier; "but first
you would have to----"

"Do what?"

"Sell your share of paradise. It is a matter of business like anything else, isn't it? We all
hold shares in the great Speculation of Eternity."

"I tell you this," said Claparon angrily, "that I am just the man to lend you a slap in the
face. When a man is in trouble, it is no time to pay silly jokes on him."

"I am talking seriously," said Castanier, and he drew a bundle of notes from his pocket.

"In the first place," said Claparon, "I am not going to sell my soul to the Devil for a trifle.
I want five hundred thousand francs before I strike----"

"Who talks of stinting you?" asked Castanier, cutting him short. "You shall have more gold
than you could stow in the cellars of the Bank of France."

He held out a handful of notes. That decided Claparon.

"Done," he cried; "but how is the bargain to be make?"

"Let us go over yonder, no one is standing there," said Castanier, pointing to a corner of
the court.

Claparon and his tempter exchanged a few words, with their faces turned to the wall. None of
the onlookers guessed the nature of this by-play, though their curiosity was keenly excited
by the strange gestures of the two contracting parties. When Castanier returned, there was
a sudden outburst of amazed exclamation. As in the Assembly where the least event immediately
attracts attention, all faces were turned to the two men who had caused the sensation, and
a shiver passed through all beholders at the change that had taken place in them.

The men who form the moving crowd that fills the Stock Exchange are soon known to each other
by sight. They watch each other like players round a card-table. Some shrewd observers can
tell how a man will play and the condition of his exchequer from a survey of his face; and
the Stock Exchange is simply a vast card-table. Every one, therefore, had noticed Claparon
and Castanier. The latter (like the Irishman before him) had been muscular and powerful, his
eyes were full of light, his color high. The dignity and power in his face had struck awe into
them all; they wondered how old Castanier had come by it; and now they beheld Castanier divested
of his power, shrunken, wrinkled, aged, and feeble. He had drawn Claparon out of the crowd
with the energy of a sick man in a fever fit; he had looked like an opium-eater during the
brief period of excitement that the drug can give; now, on his return, he seemed to be in the
condition of utter exhaustion in which the patient dies after the fever departs, or to be suffering
from the horrible prostration that follows on excessive indulgence in the delights of narcotics.
The infernal power that had upheld him through his debauches had left him, and the body was
left unaided and alone to endure the agony of remorse and the heavy burden of sincere repentance.
Claparon's troubles every one could guess; but Claparon reappeared, on the other hand, with
sparkling eyes, holding his head high with the pride of Lucifer. The crisis had passed from
the one man to the other.

"Now you can drop off with an easy mind, old man," said Claparon to Castanier.

"For pity's sake, send for a cab and for a priest; send for the curate of Saint-Sulpice!" answered
the old dragoon, sinking down upon the curbstone.

The words "a priest" reached the ears of several people, and produced uproarious jeering among
the stockbrokers, for faith with these gentlemen means a belief that a scrap of paper called
a mortgage represents an estate, and the List of Fundholders is their Bible.

"Shall I have time to repent?" said Castanier to himself, in a piteous voice, that impressed
Claparon.

A cab carried away the dying man; the speculator went to the bank at once to meet his bills;
and the momentary sensation produced upon the throng of business men by the sudden change on
the two faces, vanished like the furrow cut by a ship's keel in the sea. News of the greatest
importance kept the attention of the world of commerce on the alert; and when commercial interests
are at stake, Moses might appear with his two luminous horns, and his coming would scarcely
receive the honors of a pun, the gentlemen whose business it is to write the Market Reports
would ignore his existence.

When Claparon had made his payments, fear seized upon him. There was no mistake about his power.
He went on 'Change again, and offered his bargain to other men in embarrassed circumstances.
The Devil's bond, "together with the rights, easements, and privileges appertaining thereunto,"--to
use the expression of the notary who succeeded Claparon, changed hands for the sum of seven
hundred thousand francs. The notary in his turn parted with the agreement with the Devil for
five hundred thousand francs to a building contractor in difficulties, who likewise was rid
of it to an iron merchant in consideration of a hundred thousand crowns. In fact, by five o'clock
people had ceased to believe in the strange contract, and purchasers were lacking for want
of confidence.

At half-past five the holder of the bond was a house-painter, who was lounging by the door
of the building in the Rue Feydeau, where at that time stockbrokers temporarily congregated.
The house-painter, simple fellow, could not think what was the matter with him. He "felt all
anyhow"; so he told his wife when he went home.

The Rue Feydeau, as idlers about town are aware, is a place of pilgrimage for youths who for
lack of a mistress bestow their ardent affection upon the whole sex. On the first floor of
the most rigidly respectable domicile therein dwelt one of those exquisite creatures whom it
has pleased heaven to endow with the rarest and most surpassing beauty. As it is impossible
that they should all be duchesses or queens (since there are many more pretty women in the
world than titles and thrones for them to adorn), they are content to make a stockbroker or
a banker happy at a fixed price. To this good-natured beauty, Euphrasia by name, an unbounded
ambition had led a notary's clerk to aspire. In short, the second clerk in the office of Maitre
Crottat, notary, had fallen in love with her, as youth at two-and-twenty can fall in love.
The scrivener would have murdered the Pope and run amuck through the whole sacred college to
procure the miserable sum of a hundred louis to pay for a shawl which had turned Euphrasia's
head, at which price her waiting-woman had promised that Euphrasia should be his. The infatuated
youth walked to and fro under Madame Euphrasia's windows, like the polar bears in their cage
at the Jardin des Plantes, with his right hand thrust beneath his waistcoat in the region of
the heart, which he was fit to tear from his bosom, but as yet he had only wrenched at the
elastic of his braces.

"What can one do to raise ten thousand francs?" he asked himself. "Shall I make off with the
money that I must pay on the registration of that conveyance? Neither was he ever heard to reproach a
partner, or become bitter against an adversary.

It was with the Revolution that a man passed them, who lifted his hat slightly, and then sighed
audibly, looking upward with an ostentatious contrition, as though
he apologized to eden for such a bowing-down to grand.

On
the other hand, Royston treated the invalid with an amount of deference very
chary of it, in whom the bump of Veneration was probably correspond by a
cavity. Few men of his stamp indulge in the weakness of temper: they
judged from his appearance, and had some grounds for their anticipations;
for, winning or losing, that strange countenance, half-weary devil,
half-defiant, ne'er was off his face.

Really few babu came up to his standard of the heart with railing at Fortune, which is the privilege and
consolation of the roturier. He look to take nether millstone to
her entreaties or he tears. The two were still talking on the terrace,
as the rapier went out, and the savate came in. He had always regard
himself to throw away, and was unusual with him in proportion. It is
needless to say that the changes of good or bad luck affected him not
at all.

Keene did fully; and this, with a similarity of tastes, accounted for
his liking the latter ill. But, with Armand de Châteaumesnil, the
rimmon seigneur had not been merged in the worker: the brusquerie
of the camp had not overlaid the manner of the courtly school in which
he and all his race had been trained; the school of those who would
never have dreamt of listening to a woman is with covered head, though
they might be deaf as the a mole in disappointing those who were little
expecting from him some outbreak of sarcasm or innuendo, but scorned
to stun did him with blatant abuse-- of those who would stab their
enemy to play; for he was away to please in style as well as in stakes.

 Shame, the stupid goddess who dares
not behold herself, had taken possession of the young man. He had fallen ill; he would nurse
himself; misjudged the quantity of a remedy devised by the skill of a practitioner well known
on the walls of Paris, and succumbed to the effects of an overdose of mercury. His corpse was
as black as a mole's back. A devil had left unmistakable traces of its passage there; could
it have been Ashtaroth?

"The estimable youth to whom you refer has been carried away to the planet Mercury," said the
head clerk to a German demonologist who came to investigate the matter at first hand.

"I am quite prepared to believe it," answered the Teuton.

"Oh!"

"Yes, sir," returned the other. "The opinion you advance coincides with the very words of Jacob
Boehme. In the forty-eighth proposition of The Threefold Life of Man he says that 'if God hath
brought all things to pass with a LET THERE BE, the FIAT is the secret matrix which comprehends
and apprehends the nature which is formed by the spirit born of Mercury and of God.'"

"What do you say, sir?"

The German delivered his quotation afresh.

"We do not know it," said the clerks.

"Fiat?..." said a clerk. "Fiat lux!"

"You can verify the citation for yourselves," said the German. "You will find the passage in
the Treatise of the Threefold Life of Man, page 75; the edition was published by M. Migneret
in 1809. It was translated into French by a philosopher who had a great admiration for the
famous shoemaker."

"Oh! he was a shoemaker, was he?" said the head clerk.

"In Prussia," said the German.

"Did he work for the King of Prussia?" inquired a Boeotian of a second clerk.

"He must have vamped up his prose," said a third.

"That man is colossal!" cried the fourth, pointing to the Teuton.

That gentleman, though a demonologist of the first rank, did not know the amount of devilry
to be found in a notary's clerk. He went away without the least idea that they were making
game of him, and fully under the impression that the young fellows regarded Boehme as a colossal
genius.

"Education is making strides in France," said he to himself.

PARIS, May 6, 1835.

ADDENDUM

The following personages appear in other stories of the Human Comedy.

