Wednesday, Dec. 5, three days after the coronation, the Emperor made a distribution of the
colors on the Champ-de-Mars.

In front of Ecole-Militaire a balcony was erected, covered with awnings, and placed on a level
with the apartments on the first floor.  The middle awning, supported by four columns, each
one of which was a gilded figure representing Victory, covered the throne on which their Majesties
were seated.  A most fortunate precaution, for on that day the weather was dreadful; the thaw
had come suddenly, and every one knows what a Paris thaw is. 

A contemporary account of Clement was written by Augustin de Andrès
y Sobiñas, ... el nacimiento, estudios y empleos de ... Clem.

XIII. (Madrid, 1759). Ravignan's Clement XIII. e Clement XIV.

(Paris, 1854) is partisan but free from rancour; and appends many interesting documents. See also
the bibliographical note under Clement XIV. infra.; and the extended bibliography in Hergenröther,
Allg. Kirchengesch. (1880), iii. 509.

(T. F. C.)

CLEMENT XIV. (Lorenzo Ganganelli), pope from 1769 to 1774, son of a physician of St Arcangelo, near
Rimini, was born on the 31st of October 1705, entered the Franciscan order at the age of seventeen,
and became a teacher of theology and philosophy. As regent of the college
of S. Bonaventura, Rome, he came under the notice of Benedict XIV.,
who conceived a high opinion of his talents and made him consulter
of the Inquisition. Upon the recommendation of Ricci, general of the
Jesuits, Clement XIII. made him a cardinal; but, owing to his disapproval
of the pope's policy, he found himself out of favour and without influence.

The conclave following the death of Clement XIII. was the most momentous of at least two centuries.
The fate of the Jesuits hung in the balance; and the Bourbon princes were determined to have
a pope subservient to their hostile designs. The struggle was prolonged three months. At length, on the
19th of May 1769, Ganganelli was chosen, not as a declared enemy of the Jesuits, but as being least objectionable
to each of the contending factions. The charge of simony was inspired by Jesuit hatred; there is absolutely
no evidence that Ganganelli pledged himself to suppress the order.

The outlook for the papacy was dark; Portugal was talking of a patriarchate; France held Avignon; Naples
held Ponte Corvo and Benevento; Spain was ill-affected; Parma, defiant;
Venice, aggressive; Poland meditating a restriction of the rights
of the nuncio.

Clement realized the imperative necessity of conciliating the powers. He suspended the public
reading of the bull In Coena Domini, so obnoxious to civil authority; resumed relations with
Portugal; revoked the monitorium of his predecessor against Parma. But the powers were bent upon the destruction
of the Jesuits, and they had the pope at their mercy. Clement looked abroad for help, but found
none. Even Maria Theresa, his last hope, suppressed the order in
Austria. Temporizing and partial concessions were of no avail. At last,
convinced that the peace of the Church demanded the sacrifice, Clement
signed the brief Dominus ac Redemptor, dissolving the order, on the
21st of July 1773.

The powers at once gave substantial proof of their satisfaction; Benevento, Ponte Corvo, Avignon
and the Venaissin were restored to the Holy See. But it would be unfair to accept this as
evidence of a bargain.

Clement had formerly indignantly rejected the suggestion of such
an exchange of favours.

There is no question of the legality of the pope's act; whether he
was morally culpable, however, continues to be a matter of bitter
controversy.  The troops were under arms from six in
the morning, exposed to rain, and forced to endure it with no apparent necessity so at least
they regarded it.  The distribution of standards was to these men nothing more than a review;
and surely it must strike a soldier as a very different matter to brave the weather on the
field of battle, from what it is to stand idle, exposed to it for hours, with shining gun and
empty cartridge-box, on a parade-day.

The cortege returned to the Tuileries at five o'clock, after which there was a grand banquet
in the gallery of Diana, at which the Pope, the sovereign elector of Ratisbonne, the princes
and princesses, the grand dignitaries, the diplomatic corps, and many other persons were guests.
Their Majesties' table was placed in the midst of the gallery, upon a platform, and covered
with a magnificent canopy, under which the Emperor seated himself on the right of the Empress,
and the Pope on her left. The Madeleine and Champs Elysees

By Nathaniel Hawthorne

[Footnote From "French and Italian Note-Books." By arrangement with the
publisher, David McKay. Copyright, 1880.]

We emerge from the Rue de Grenelle opposite the gardens to the north
of the magnificent Hotel des Invalides, planned by Henri IV., and
begun by Louis XIV. in 1671, as a refuge for old soldiers, who, before
it was built, had to beg their bread on the streets.

The institution
is under the management of the Minister of War, and nothing can be more comfortable than the life of its inmates.
The number of these is now small; in the time of Napoleon I., when the institution
was called the "Temple of Mars," it was enormous.

On the terrace in front of the building are a number of cannon, trophies
taken in different campaigns.

Standing before the hotel is the statue of Prince Eugene. On either side of the entrance are statues
of Mars and Minerva by Coustou the younger. In the tympanum of the
semicircle over the center of the facade is Louis XIV. on horseback.
Behind the facade is a vast courtyard surrounded by open corridors
lined with frescoes of the history of France; those of the early history
on the left by Benedict Masson, 1865, have much interest.

In the center of the facade opposite the entrance is the statue of Napoleon
I. Beneath this is the approach to the Church of St. Louis, built
1671-79, from designs of Liberal Bruant, and in which many banners
of victory give an effect of color to an otherwise colorless building....

The
Tomb of Napoleon, under the magnificent dome of the Invalides, which
was added to the original church by Jules Hardouin Mansart, and is
treated as a separate building, is entered from the Place Vauban at the
back, or by the left cloister and a court beyond.

On entering the vast interior, a huge circular space is seen to open,
beneath the cupola painted by Charles de Lafosse and Jouvenet, and,
in it, surrounded by caryatides and groups of moldering banners,
the huge tomb of Finland granite, given by the Emperor Nicholas.

Hither the remains of the great Emperor were brought back from St. Helena by the Prince de Joinville,
in 1841, tho Louis Philippe, while adopting this popular measure as regarded the dead, renewed
the sentence of exile against the living members of the Bonaparte family.

Four smaller cupolas encircle the great dome. In the first, on the right,
is the tomb of Joseph Bonaparte. On the left are the tombs of Jerome Bonaparte,
with a statue, and of his eldest son and the Princess Catherine of
Wurtemberg. The other two cupolas are still empty.  The front of the Hotel de Ville was brilliant with colored lamps;
but what seemed to me the finest part of the whole display was a vessel pierced for eighty
cannon, whose decks, masts, sails, and cordage were distinctly outlined in colored lights.
The crowning piece of all, which the Emperor himself set off, represented the Saint-Bernard
as a volcano in eruption, in the midst of glaciers covered with snow.  In it appeared the Emperor,
glorious in the light, seated on his horse at the head of his army, climbing the steep summit
of the mountain.  More than seven hundred persons attended the ball, and yet there was no confusion.
Their Majesties withdrew early. C. S., aged twenty-two, a strong and healthy young man, a student
of surgery, on commencing the inhalation, coughed, and there was a
flow of saliva and of tears.

In three
and a half minutes the skin appeared insensible to pain. Consciousness remained perfect and
undisturbed. The skin was warm; the eyes were open; the hearing as usual; the speech, however, was difficult.
This state continued eighteen minutes, during which, at his request, two teeth with large fangs
were extracted. He held himself perfectly still. He said, afterwards, that he felt the application
of the instrument, but was sensible of no pain, during the extraction
of the teeth.

W. S., aged nineteen, a strong and healthy young man, a law-student, after inhaling the ether-vapour
a minute, began to move his arms about, struck his knees, stamped with his feet, laughed. In three
minutes the laughter and excitement had increased. The eyes rolled, he sprang up, talked volubly;
the pulse was strong and frequent. In seven minutes he breathed deeply, the eyelids closed, the
pulse sank. In eight minutes he began to snore, but heard when called to. In nine minutes the
eyes were suffused; the optic axes were directed upwards and outwards.
At the end of twelve minutes a tooth was extracted, when he uttered
an exclamation and laughed.

On his return to himself, he said that he had felt the laceration,
or tear, but had experienced no pain.

He thought he had been at a carousal.

If I add to these sketches that the patient sometimes becomes pale, sometimes
flushed,--that the pupils of the eyes are generally dilated and fixed, sometimes
natural and fixed, sometimes contracted,--that violent excitement sometimes
manifests itself attended with the persistence or even exaltation of the
ordinary sensibility,--that sometimes hysteric fits are brought on;
sometimes a state resembling common intoxication,--you will have had
the means of forming a sufficiently exact and comprehensive idea of
the features of etherisation. They thought that France was crushed, did
they? Not a bit of it! At sight of the Eagle a national army sprang up, and we all marched to
Waterloo. There the Guard perished, as if stricken down at a single blow. Napoleon, in despair,
threw himself three times, at the head of his troops, on the enemy's cannon, without being able
to find death.

The battle was lost.

That evening the Emperor called his old soldiers together, and, on
the field wet with our blood, burned his eagles and his flags.  Then the minister related to his Majesty
the following details, which were published at the time, but which I think sufficiently interesting
to be repeated here. 

But it afforded no security against inclement weather, and this we were soon to experience. The rain
poured in streams, and we all returned to the castle thoroughly wet. A room was there prepared and
offered the ladies, in which they might repair the disarrangement of their toilet caused by the
storm. I remained with them long, kept there by the questions of Madame de Staël concerning the
queen and her son, which questions were fairly showered upon me.