Mr. Mivart further objects to the alleged rigidity of the action of natural selection, because
wounded or malformed animals have been found which had evidently lived a considerable time
in their imperfect condition. But this simply proves that they were living under a temporarily
favourable environment, and that the real struggle for existence, in their case, had not yet
taken place. We must surely admit that, when the pinch came, and when perfectly formed stoats
were dying for want of food, the one-footed animal, referred to by Mr. Mivart, would be among
the first to succumb; and the same remark will apply to his abnormally toothed hares and rheumatic
monkeys, which might, nevertheless, get on very well under favourable conditions. The struggle
for existence, under which all animals and plants have been developed, is intermittent, and
exceedingly irregular in its incidence and severity. It is most severe and fatal to the young;
but when an animal has once reached maturity, and especially when it has gained experience
by several years of an eventful existence, it may be able to maintain itself under conditions
which would be fatal to a young and inexperienced creature of the same species. The examples
adduced by Mr. Mivart do not, therefore, in any way impugn the hardness of nature as a taskmaster,
or the extreme severity of the recurring struggle for existence. (See Nature, vol. xxxix. p. 127.)]

[Footnote 46: Origin of Species, p. 72.]

[Footnote 47: Darwin's latest expression of opinion on this question is interesting, since
it shows that he was inclined to return to his earlier view of the general, or universal, utility
of specific characters. (Life of Darwin, vol. iii. p. 161).]

[Footnote 48: See Variation of Animals and Plants, vol. i. p. 86.]

[Footnote 49: Journal of the Linnean Society, Zoology, vol. xx. p. 215.]

[Footnote 50: In Mr. Gulick's last paper (Journal of Linn. Soc. Zool., vol. xx. pp. 189-274)
he discusses the various forms of isolation above referred to, under no less than thirty-eight
different divisions and subdivisions, with an elaborate terminology, and he argues that these
will frequently bring about divergent evolution without any change in the environment or any
action of natural selection.

One of the greatest, or perhaps we may say the greatest, of all the difficulties in the way
of accepting the theory of natural selection as a complete explanation of the origin of species,
has been the remarkable difference between varieties and species in respect of fertility when
crossed. Generally speaking, it may be said that the varieties of any one species, however
different they may be in external appearance, are perfectly fertile when crossed, and their
mongrel offspring are equally fertile when bred among themselves; while distinct species, on
the other hand, however closely they may resemble each other externally, are usually infertile
when crossed, and their hybrid offspring absolutely sterile. This used to be considered a fixed
law of nature, constituting the absolute test and criterion of a species as distinct from a
variety; and so long as it was believed that species were separate creations, or at all events
had an origin quite distinct from that of varieties, this law could have no exceptions, because,
if any two species had been found to be fertile when crossed and their hybrid offspring to
be also fertile, this fact would have been held to prove them to be not species but varieties.
On the other hand, if two varieties had been found to be infertile, or their mongrel offspring
to be sterile, then it would have been said: These are not varieties but true species. Thus
the old theory led to inevitable reasoning in a circle; and what might be only a rather common
fact was elevated into a law which had no exceptions.

The elaborate and careful examination of the whole subject by Mr. Darwin, who has brought together
a vast mass of evidence from the experience of agriculturists and horticulturists, as well
as from scientific experimenters, has demonstrated that there is no such fixed law in nature
as was formerly supposed. He shows us that crosses between some varieties are infertile or
even sterile, while crosses between some species are quite fertile; and that there are besides
a number of curious phenomena connected with the subject which render it impossible to believe
that sterility is anything more than an incidental property of species, due to the extreme
delicacy and susceptibility of the reproductive powers, and dependent on physiological causes
we have not yet been able to trace. Nevertheless, the fact remains that most species which
have hitherto been crossed produce sterile hybrids, as in the well-known case of the mule;
while almost all domestic varieties, when crossed, produce offspring which are perfectly fertile
among themselves. I will now endeavour to give such a sketch of the subject as may enable the
reader to see something of the complexity of the problem, referring him to Mr. Darwin's works
for fuller details.

Extreme Susceptibility of the Reproductive Functions.

One of the most interesting facts, as showing how susceptible to changed conditions or to slight
constitutional changes are the reproductive powers of animals, is the very general difficulty
of getting those which are kept in confinement to breed; and this is frequently the only bar
to domesticating wild species. Thus, elephants, bears, foxes, and numbers of species of rodents,
very rarely breed in confinement; while other species do so more or less freely. Hawks, vultures,
and owls hardly ever breed in confinement; neither did the falcons kept for hawking ever breed.
Of the numerous small seed-eating birds kept in aviaries, hardly any breed, neither do parrots.
Gallinaceous birds usually breed freely in confinement, but some do not; and even the guans
and curassows, kept tame by the South American Indians, never breed. This shows that change
of climate has nothing to do with the phenomenon; and, in fact, the same species that refuse
to breed in Europe do so, in almost every case, when tamed or confined in their native countries.
This inability to reproduce is not due to ill-health, since many of these creatures are perfectly
vigorous and live very long.

With our true domestic animals, on the other hand, fertility is perfect, and is very little
affected by changed conditions. Thus, we see the common fowl, a native of tropical India, living
and multiplying in almost every part of the world; and the same is the case with our cattle,
sheep, and goats, our dogs and horses, and especially with domestic pigeons. It therefore seems
probable, that this facility for breeding under changed conditions was an original property
of the species which man has domesticated--a property which, more than any other, enabled him
to domesticate them. Yet, even with these, there is evidence that great changes of conditions
affect the fertility. In the hot valleys of the Andes sheep are less fertile; while geese taken
to the high plateau of Bogota were at first almost sterile, but after some generations recovered
their fertility. These and many other facts seem to show that, with the majority of animals,
even a slight change of conditions may produce infertility or sterility; and also that after
a time, when the animal has become thoroughly acclimatised, as it were, to the new conditions,
the infertility is in some cases diminished or altogether ceases. It is stated by Bechstein
that the canary was long infertile, and it is only of late years that good breeding birds have
become common; but in this case no doubt selection has aided the change.

As showing that these phenomena depend on deep-seated causes and are of a very general nature,
it is interesting to note that they occur also in the vegetable kingdom. Allowing for all the
circumstances which are known to prevent the production of seed, such as too great luxuriance
of foliage, too little or too much heat, or the absence of insects to cross-fertilise the flowers,
Mr. Darwin shows that many species which grow and flower with us, apparently in perfect health,
yet never produce seed. Other plants are affected by very slight changes of conditions, producing
seed freely in one soil and not in another, though apparently growing equally well in both;
while, in some cases, a difference of position even in the same garden produces a similar result.[51]

Reciprocal Crosses.

Another indication of the extreme delicacy of the adjustment between the sexes, which is necessary
to produce fertility, is afforded by the behaviour of many species and varieties when reciprocally
crossed. This will be best illustrated by a few of the examples furnished us by Mr. Darwin.
The two distinct species of plants, Mirabilis jalapa and M. longiflora, can be easily crossed,
and will produce healthy and fertile hybrids when the pollen of the latter is applied to the
stigma of the former plant. But the same experimenter, Kölreuter, tried in vain, more than
two hundred times during eight years, to cross them by applying the pollen of M. jalapa to
the stigma of M. longiflora. In other cases two plants are so closely allied that some botanists
class them as varieties (as with Matthiola annua and M. glabra), and yet there is the same
great difference in the result when they are reciprocally crossed.

Individual Differences in respect to Cross-Fertilisation.

A still more remarkable illustration of the delicate balance of organisation needful for reproduction,
is afforded by the individual differences of animals and plants, as regards both their power
of intercrossing with other individuals or other species, and the fertility of the offspring
thus produced. Among domestic animals, Darwin states that it is by no means rare to find certain
males and females which will not breed together, though both are known to be perfectly fertile
with other males and females. Cases of this kind have occurred among horses, cattle, pigs,
dogs, and pigeons; and the experiment has been tried so frequently that there can be no doubt
of the fact. Professor G.J. Romanes states that he has a number of additional cases of this
individual incompatibility, or of absolute sterility, between two individuals, each of which
is perfectly fertile with other individuals.

During the numerous experiments that have been made on the hybridisation of plants similar
peculiarities have been noticed, some individuals being capable, others incapable, of being
crossed with a distinct species. The same individual peculiarities are found in varieties,
species, and genera. Kölreuter crossed five varieties of the common tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum)
with a distinct species, Nicotiana glutinosa, and they all yielded very sterile hybrids; but
those raised from one variety were less sterile, in all the experiments, than the hybrids from
the four other varieties. Again, most of the species of the genus Nicotiana have been crossed,
and freely produce hybrids; but one species, N. acuminata, not particularly distinct from the
others, could neither fertilise, nor be fertilised by, any of the eight other species experimented
on. Among genera we find some--such as Hippeastrum, Crinum, Calceolaria, Dianthus--almost all
the species of which will fertilise other species and produce hybrid offspring; while other
allied genera, as Zephyranthes and Silene, notwithstanding the most persevering efforts, have
not produced a single hybrid even between the most closely allied species.

Dimorphism and Trimorphism.

Peculiarities in the reproductive system affecting individuals of the same species reach their
maximum in what are called heterostyled, or dimorphic and trimorphic flowers, the phenomena
presented by which form one of the most remarkable of Mr. Darwin's many discoveries. Our common
cowslip and primrose, as well as many other species of the genus Primula, have two kinds of
flowers in about equal proportions. In one kind the stamens are short, being situated about
the middle of the tube of the corolla, while the style is long, the globular stigma appearing
just in the centre of the open flower. In the other kind the stamens are long, appearing in
the centre or throat of the flower, while the style is short, the stigma being situated halfway
down the tube at the same level as the stamens in the other form. These two forms have long
been known to florists as the "pin-eyed" and the "thrum-eyed," but they are called by Darwin
the long-styled and short-styled forms (see woodcut).

The meaning and use of these different forms was quite unknown till Darwin discovered, first,
that cowslips and primroses are absolutely barren if insects are prevented from visiting them,
and then, what is still more extraordinary, that each form is almost sterile when fertilised
by its own pollen, and comparatively infertile when crossed with any other plant of its own
form, but is perfectly fertile when the pollen of a long-styled is carried to the stigma of
a short-styled plant, or vice versâ. It will be seen, by the figures, that the arrangement
is such that a bee visiting the flowers will carry the pollen from the long anthers of the
short-styled form to the stigma of the long-styled form, while it would never reach the stigma
of another plant of the short-styled form. But an insect visiting, first, a long-styled plant,
would deposit the pollen on the stigma of another plant of the same kind if it were next visited;
and this is probably the reason why the wild short-styled plants were found to be almost always
most productive of seed, since they must be all fertilised by the other form, whereas the long-styled
plants might often be fertilised by their own form. The whole arrangement, however, ensures
cross-fertilisation; and this, as Mr. Darwin has shown by copious experiments, adds both to
the vigour and fertility of almost all plants as well as animals.

Besides the primrose family, many other plants of several distinct natural orders present similar
phenomena, one or two of the most curious of which must be referred to. The beautiful crimson
flax (Linum grandiflorum) has also two forms, the styles only differing in length; and in this
case Mr. Darwin found by numerous experiments, which have since been repeated and confirmed
by other observers, that each form is absolutely sterile with pollen from another plant of
its own form, but abundantly fertile when crossed with any plant of the other form. In this
case the pollen of the two forms cannot be distinguished under the microscope (whereas that
of the two forms of Primula differs in size and shape), yet it has the remarkable property
of being absolutely powerless on the stigmas of half the plants of its own species. The crosses
between the opposite forms, which are fertile, are termed by Mr. Darwin "legitimate," and those
between similar forms, which are sterile, "illegitimate"; and he remarks that we have here,
within the limits of the same species, a degree of sterility which rarely occurs except between
plants or animals not only of different species but of different genera.

But there is another set of plants, the trimorphic, in which the styles and stamens have each
three forms--long, medium, and short, and in these it is possible to have eighteen different
crosses. This seems to show us, in the first place, that variations in the mutual relations
of the reproductive organs of different individuals must be as frequent as structural variations
have been shown to be; and, also, that sterility in itself can be no test of specific distinctness.
But this point will be better considered when we have further illustrated and discussed the
complex phenomena of hybridity.

Cases of the Fertility of Hybrids, and of the Infertility of Mongrels.

I now propose to adduce a few cases in which it has been proved, by experiment, that hybrids
between two distinct species are fertile inter se; and then to consider why it is that such
cases are so few in number.

The common domestic goose (Anser ferns) and the Chinese goose (A. cygnoides) are very distinct
species, so distinct that some naturalists have placed them in different genera; yet they have
bred together, and Mr. Eyton raised from a pair of these hybrids a brood of eight. This fact
was confirmed by Mr. Darwin himself, who raised several fine birds from a pair of hybrids which
were sent him.[53] In India, according to Mr. Blyth and Captain Hutton, whole flocks of these
hybrid geese are kept in various parts of the country where neither of the pure parent species
exists, and as they are kept for profit they must certainly be fully fertile.

Another equally striking case is that of the Indian humped and the common cattle, species which
differ osteologically, and also in habits, form, voice, and constitution, so that they are
by no means closely allied; yet Mr. Darwin assures us that he has received decisive evidence
that the hybrids between these are perfectly fertile inter se.

Dogs have been frequently crossed with wolves and with jackals, and their hybrid offspring
have been found to be fertile inter se to the third or fourth generation, and then usually
to show some signs of sterility or of deterioration. The wolf and dog may be originally the
same species, but the jackal is certainly distinct; and the appearance of infertility or of
weakness is probably due to the fact that, in almost all these experiments, the offspring of
a single pair--themselves usually from the same litter--- were bred in-and-in, and this alone
sometimes produces the most deleterious effects. Thus, Mr. Low in his great work on the Domesticated
Animals of Great Britain, says: "If we shall breed a pair of dogs from the same litter, and
unite again the offspring of this pair, we shall produce at once a feeble race of creatures;
and the process being repeated for one or two generations more, the family will die out, or
be incapable of propagating their race. A gentleman of Scotland made the experiment on a large
scale with certain foxhounds, and he found that the race actually became monstrous and perished
utterly." The same writer tells us that hogs have been made the subject of similar experiments:
"After a few generations the victims manifest the change induced in the system. They become
of diminished size; the bristles are changed into hairs; the limbs become feeble and short;
the litters diminish in frequency, and in the number of the young produced; the mother becomes
unable to nourish them, and, if the experiment be carried as far as the case will allow, the
feeble, and frequently monstrous offspring, will be incapable of being reared up, and the miserable
race will utterly perish."[54]

These precise statements, by one of the greatest authorities on our domesticated animals, are
sufficient to show that the fact of infertility or degeneracy appearing in the offspring of
hybrids after a few generations need not be imputed to the fact of the first parents being
distinct species, since exactly the same phenomena appear when individuals of the same species
are bred under similar adverse conditions. But in almost all the experiments that have hitherto
been made in crossing distinct species, no care has been taken to avoid close interbreeding
by securing several hybrids from quite distinct stocks to start with, and by having two or
more sets of experiments carried on at once, so that crosses between the hybrids produced may
be occasionally made. Till this is done no experiments, such as those hitherto tried, can be
held to prove that hybrids are in all cases infertile inter se.

It has, however, been denied by Mr. A.H. Huth, in his interesting work on The Marriage of Near
Kin, that any amount of breeding in-and-in is in itself hurtful; and he quotes the evidence
of numerous breeders whose choicest stocks have always been so bred, as well as cases like
the Porto Santo rabbits, the goats of Juan Fernandez, and other cases in which animals allowed
to run wild have increased prodigiously and continued in perfect health and vigour, although
all derived from a single pair. But in all these cases there has been rigid selection by which
the weak or the infertile have been eliminated, and with such selection there is no doubt that
the ill effects of close interbreeding can be prevented for a long time; but this by no means
proves that no ill effects are produced. Mr. Huth himself quotes M. Allié, M. Aubé, Stephens,
Giblett, Sir John Sebright, Youatt, Druce, Lord Weston, and other eminent breeders, as finding
from experience that close interbreeding does produce bad effects; and it cannot be supposed
that there would be such a consensus of opinion on this point if the evil were altogether imaginary.
Mr. Huth argues, that the evil results which do occur do not depend on the close interbreeding
itself, but on the tendency it has to perpetuate any constitutional weakness or other hereditary
taints; and he attempts to prove this by the argument that "if crosses act by virtue of being
a cross, and not by virtue of removing an hereditary taint, then the greater the difference
between the two animals crossed the more beneficial will that act be." He then shows that,
the wider the difference the less is the benefit, and concludes that a cross, as such, has
no beneficial effect. A parallel argument would be, that change of air, as from inland to the
sea-coast, or from a low to an elevated site, is not beneficial in itself, because, if so,
a change to the tropics or to the polar regions should be more beneficial. In both these cases
it may well be that no benefit would accrue to a person in perfect health; but then there is
no such thing as "perfect health" in man, and probably no such thing as absolute freedom from
constitutional taint in animals. The experiments of Mr. Darwin, showing the great and immediate
good effects of a cross between distinct strains in plants, cannot be explained away; neither
can the innumerable arrangements to secure cross-fertilisation by insects, the real use and
purport of which will be discussed in our eleventh chapter. On the whole, then, the evidence
at our command proves that, whatever may be its ultimate cause, close interbreeding does usually
produce bad results; and it is only by the most rigid selection, whether natural or artificial,
that the danger can be altogether obviated.

Fertile Hybrids among Animals.

One or two more cases of fertile hybrids may be given before we pass on to the corresponding
experiments in plants. Professor Alfred Newton received from a friend a pair of hybrid ducks,
bred from a common duck (Anas boschas), and a pintail (Dafila acuta). From these he obtained
four ducklings, but these latter, when grown up, proved infertile, and did not breed again.
In this case we have the results of close interbreeding, with too great a difference between
the original species, combining to produce infertility, yet the fact of a hybrid from such
a pair producing healthy offspring is itself noteworthy.

Still more extraordinary is the following statement of Mr. Low: "It has been long known to
shepherds, though questioned by naturalists, that the progeny of the cross between the sheep
and goat is fertile. Breeds of this mixed race are numerous in the north of Europe."[55] Nothing
appears to be known of such hybrids either in Scandinavia or in Italy; but Professor Giglioli
of Florence has kindly given me some useful references to works in which they are described.
The following extract from his letter is very interesting: "I need not tell you that there
being such hybrids is now generally accepted as a fact. Buffon (Supplements, tom. iii. p. 7,
1756) obtained one such hybrid in 1751 and eight in 1752. Sanson (La Culture, vol. vi. p. 372,
1865) mentions a case observed in the Vosges, France. Geoff. St. Hilaire (Hist. Nat. Gén. des
reg. org., vol. iii. p. 163) was the first to mention, I believe, that in different parts of
South America the ram is more usually crossed with the she-goat than the sheep with the he-goat.
The well-known 'pellones' of Chile are produced by the second and third generation of such
hybrids (Gay, 'Hist, de Chile,' vol. i. p. 466, Agriculture, 1862). Hybrids bred from goat
and sheep are called 'chabin' in French, and 'cabruno' in Spanish. In Chile such hybrids are
called 'carneros lanudos'; their breeding inter se appears to be not always successful, and
often the original cross has to be recommenced to obtain the proportion of three-eighths of
he-goat and five-eighths of sheep, or of three-eighths of ram and five-eighths of she-goat;
such being the reputed best hybrids."

With these numerous facts recorded by competent observers we can hardly doubt that races of
hybrids between these very distinct species have been produced, and that such hybrids are fairly
fertile inter se; and the analogous facts already given lead us to believe that whatever amount
of infertility may at first exist could be eliminated by careful selection, if the crossed
races were bred in large numbers and over a considerable area of country. This case is especially
valuable, as showing how careful we should be in assuming the infertility of hybrids when experiments
have been made with the progeny of a single pair, and have been continued only for one or two
generations.

Among insects one case only appears to have been recorded. The hybrids of two moths (Bombyx
cynthia and B. arrindia) were proved in Paris, according to M. Quatrefages, to be fertile inter
se for eight generations.

Fertility of Hybrids among Plants.

Among plants the cases of fertile hybrids are more numerous, owing, in part, to the large scale
on which they are grown by gardeners and nurserymen, and to the greater facility with which
experiments can be made. Darwin tells us that Kölreuter found ten cases in which two plants
considered by botanists to be distinct species were quite fertile together, and he therefore
ranked them all as varieties of each other. In some cases these were grown for six to ten successive
generations, but after a time the fertility decreased, as we saw to be the case in animals,
and presumably from the same cause, too close interbreeding.

Dean Herbert, who carried on experiments with great care and skill for many years, found numerous
cases of hybrids which were perfectly fertile inter se. Crinum capense, fertilised by three
other species--C. pedunculatum, C. canaliculatum, or C. defixum--all very distinct from it,
produced perfectly fertile hybrids; while other species less different in appearance were quite
sterile with the same C. capense.

