THE RAID OF THE GUERILLA

By Charles Egbert Craddock

1911

Judgment day was coming to Tanglefoot Cove--somewhat in advance of the expectation of the rest
of the world. Immediate doom impended. A certain noted guerilla, commanding a reckless troop,
had declared a stern intention of raiding this secluded nook among the Great Smoky Mountains,
and its denizens could but tremble at the menace.

Few and feeble folk were they. The volunteering spirit rife in the early days of the Civil
War had wrought the first depletion in the number. Then came, as time wore on, the rigors of
the conscription, with an extension of the limits of age from the very young to the verge of
the venerable, thus robbing, as was said, both the cradle and the grave. Now only the ancient
weaklings and the frail callow remained of the male population among the women and girls, who
seemed mere supernumeraries in the scheme of creation, rated by the fitness to bear arms.

So feeble a community of non-combatants might hardly compass a warlike affront calculated to
warrant reprisal, but the predominant Union spirit of East Tennessee was all a-pulse in the
Cove, and the deed was no trifle.

"'T war Ethelindy's deed," her grandfather mumbled, his quivering lips close to the knob of
his stick, on which his palsied, veinous hands trembled as he sat in his armchair on the broad
hearth of the main room in his little log cabin.

Ethelinda Brusie glanced quickly, furtively, at his pondering, wrinkled old face under the
broad brim of his white wool hat, which he still wore, though indoors and with the night well
advanced. Then she fixed her anxious, excited blue eyes once more on the flare of the fire.

"Lawd! ye jes' now f 'und that out, dad?" exclaimed her widowed mother, busied in her evening
task of carding wool on one side of the deep chimney, built of clay and sticks, and seeming
always the imminent prey of destruction. But there it had stood for a hundred years, dispensing
light and warmth and cheer, itself more inflammable than the great hickory logs that had summer
still among their fibres and dripped sap odorously as they sluggishly burned.

Ethelinda cast a like agitated glance on the speaker, then her gaze reverted to the fire. She
had the air of being perched up, as if to escape the clutching waves of calamity, as she sat
on a high, inverted splint basket, her feet not touching the puncheons of the rude floor, one
hand drawing close about her the red woollen skirt of her dress. She seemed shrunken even from
her normal small size, and she listened to the reproachful recital of her political activity
with a shrinking dismay on her soft, roseate face.

"Nuthin' would do Ethelindy," her granny lifted an accusatory voice, still knitting briskly,
though she looked rebukingly over her spectacles at the cowering girl, "when that thar Union
dee-tachmint rid into Tanglefoot Cove like a rat into a trap----"

"Yes," interposed Mrs. Brusie, "through mistakin' it fur Greenbrier Cove."

"Nuthin' would do Ethelindy but she mus' up an' offer to show the officer the way out by that
thar cave what tunnels through the spur of the mounting down todes the bluffs, what sca'cely
one o' the boys left in the Cove would know now."

"Else he'd hev been capshured," Ethelinda humbly submitted.

"Yes"--the ruffles of her grandmother's cap were terrible to view as they wagged at her with
the nodding vehemence of her prelection--"an' you will be capshured now."

The girl visibly winced, and one of the three small boys lying about the hearth, sharing the
warm flags with half a dozen dogs, whimpered aloud in sympathetic fright. The others preserved
a breathless, anxious silence. 

The "Romantic Annals of England," on their first appearance, made but slow progress in popularity:
the author trusted, and the publisher hoped, and, to use a publishing phrase, the work gradually
made its way--slow but sure--if we may judge from the wished-for
"new editions."

How unlike is this course of favour to the blaze of fashionable annals, or novels of high life,
that are born and die in a day, or with one reading circle of a subscription library. They strut
and fume in the publisher's newspaper puffs; but their light is put out within a few brief hours,
and they are laid to sleep on the capacious shelves of the publisher's warehouse. Not so with
the Tales of Historical Romance: they have fancy enough to embellish
sober fact.

The second series--Spain--is from a Spanish hand of some pretension, but less power than that
of Mr. Neele.

The third series--France--by another hand, is now before us.

In his advertisement, the author says, when he undertook the present
series, "he proposed to himself to fulfil what 'the Romance of History'
seemed to require, by presenting a succession of romantic pictures
illustrative of the historical manners of the French Nation."

We incline to his conception of the task. He further notes that "he has taken pains to go
for information to the original sources of French History.

These he found in reasonable abundance, in the old Collegiate Library of Caen, and in the British
Museum." There are in the Series nineteen Tales, with historical summaries where requisite
for their elucidation. The titles are irresistible invitations--as Bertha, or the Court of
Charlemagne--Adventures of Eriland--the Man-Wolf--the Phantom Fight--the Magic Wand--the Dream
Girl, &c. Their style may be called spirit-stirring, while it has much of the graceful prettiness of
love-romance.--The author, too, has caught the very air of chivalric
times, and his pages glitter with the points of their glories;--not
unseasonably mixed with the delightful quaintnesses and descriptive
minuteness of the old chroniclers.

To condense either of the stories would be neither advantageous to the author nor reader. We
therefore extract a scene or two from "the Bondsman's Feast," and
an exquisite portrait of "the Dream Girl:"--

The Bondsman's Feast.

Arthault's only child was a son, who owed nothing to his father but
the prospect of a fair inheritance, for he was little like him in
form, and not at all in mind: he was a fine, manly, generous, and high-spirited
youth--such as would have been thought too early born, had his appearance
been made before the hereditary servility of his family was forgotten.


"They had lanterns an' some pine-knots, grandad, what they lighted, an' the leader sent a squad
ter 'reconnoitre,' ez he called it. An' whilst he waited he stood an' talked ter me about the
roads in Greenbrier an' the lay o' the land over thar. He war full per-lite an' genteel."

"I'll be bound ye looked like a 'crazy Jane,'" cried the grandmother, with sudden exasperation.
"Yer white sun-bonnet plumb off an' a-hangin' down on yer shoulders, an' yer yaller hair all
a-blowsin' at loose eends, stiddier bein' plaited up stiff an' tight an' personable, an' yer
face burned pink in the sun, stiddier like yer skin ginerally looks, fine an' white ez a pan
o' fraish milk, an' the flabby, slinksy skirt o' that yaller calico dress 'thout no starch
in it, a-flappin' an' whirlin' in the wind--shucks! I dun'no' whut the man could hev thought
o' you-uns, dressed out that-a-way."

"He war toler'ble well pleased with me now, sure!" retorted Ethelinda, stung to a blunt self-assertion.
"He keered mo' about a good-lookin' road than a good-lookin' gal then. Whenst the squad kem
back an' reported the passage full safe for man an' beastis the leader tuk a purse o' money
out'n his pocket an' held it out to me--though he said it couldn't express his thanks.' But
I held my hands behind me an' wouldn't take it. Then he called up another man an' made him
open a bag, an' he snatched up my empty milk-piggin' an' poured it nigh full o' green coffee
in the bean--it be skeerce ez gold an' nigh ez precious."

"An' what did you do with it, Ethelindy?" her mother asked, significantly--not for information,
but for the renewal of discussion and to justify the repetition of rebukes. These had not been few.

"You know," the girl returned, sullenly.

"I do," the glib grandmother interposed. "Ye jes' gin we-uns a sniff an' a sup, an' then ye
tuk the kittle that leaks an' shook the rest of the coffee beans from out yer milk-piggin inter
it, an' sot out an' marched yer-self through the laurel--I wonder nuthin' didn't ketch ye!
howsomever naught is never in danger--an' went ter that horspital camp o' the rebels on Big
Injun Mounting--smallpox horspital it is--an' gin that precious coffee away to the enemies
o' yer kentry."

"Nobody comes nor goes ter that place--hell itself ain't so avoided," said Mrs. Brusie, her
forehead corrugated with sudden recurrence of anxiety. "Nobody else in this world would have
resked it, 'ceptin' that headin' contrairy gal, Ethelindy Brusie."

"I never resked nuthin," protested Ethelinda. "I stopped at the head of a bluff far off, an'
hollered down ter 'em in the clearin' an' held up the kittle. An' two or three rebs war out
of thar tents in the clearin'--thar be a good sight o' new graves up thar!--an' them men war
hollerin' an' wavin' me away, till they seen what I war doin'; jes' settin' down the kittle
an' startin' off."

She gazed meditatively into the fire, of set purpose avoiding the eyes fixed upon her, and
sought to justify her course.

"I knowed ez we-uns hed got used ter doin' 'thout coffee, an' don't feel the need of it now.
We-uns air well an' stout, an' live in our good home an' beside our own h'a'th-stone; an' they
air sick, an' pore, an' cast out, an' I reckon they ain't ever been remembered before in gifts.
An' I 'lowed the coffee, bein' unexpected an' a sorter extry, mought put some fraish heart
an' hope in 'em--leastwise show 'em ez God don't 'low 'em ter be plumb furgot."

She still gazed meditatively at the fire as if it held a scroll of her recollections, which
she gradually interpreted anew. "I looked back wunst, an' one o' them rebs had sot down on
a log an' war sobbin' ez ef his heart would bust. An' another of 'em war signin, at me agin
an' agin, like he was drawin' a cross in the air--one pass down an' then one across--an' the
other reb war jes' laffin' fur joy, and wunst in a while he yelled out: 'Blessin's on ye! Blessin's!
Blessin's!' I dun'no' how fur I hearn that sayin'. The rocks round the creek war repeatin'
it, whenst I crossed the f oot-bredge. I dun'no what the feller meant--mought hev been crazy."

A tricksy gust stirred at the door as if a mischievous hand twitched the latch-string, but
it hung within. There was a pause. The listening children on the hearth sighed and shifted
their posture; one of the hounds snored sonorously in the silence.

"Nuthin' crazy thar 'ceptin' you-uns!--one fool gal--that's all!" said her grandmother, with
her knitting-needles and her spectacles glittering in the firelight. "That is a pest camp.
Ye mought hev cotch the smallpox. I be lookm' fur ye ter break out with it any day. When the
war is over an' the men come back to the Cove, none of 'em will so much as look at ye, with
yer skin all pock-marked--fair an' fine as it is now, like a pan of fraish milk."

"But, granny, it won't be sp'ilt! The camp war too fur off--an' thar warn't a breath o' wind.
I never went a-nigh 'em."

"I dun'no' how fur smallpox kin travel--an' it jes' mulls and mulls in ye afore it breaks out--don't
it, S'briny?"

"Don't ax me," said Mrs. Brusie, with a worried air. "I ain't no yerb doctor, nor nurse tender,
nuther. Ethelindy is beyond my understandin'."

She was beyond her own understanding, as she sat weeping slowly, silently. The aspect of those
forlorn graves, that recorded the final ebbing of hope and life at the pest camp, had struck
her recollection with a most poignant appeal. Strangers, wretches, dying alone, desolate outcasts,
the terror of their kind, the epitome of repulsion--they were naught to her! Yet they represented
humanity in its helplessness, its suffering, its isolated woe, and its great and final mystery;
she felt vaguely grieved for their sake, and she gave the clay that covered them, still crude
red clods with not yet a blade of grass, the fellowship of her tears.

A thrill of masculine logic stirred uneasily in the old man's disused brain. Martha held her arms
up toward her just as the first flash of lightning came.

"Come, Scylla," she said, "slide off into my arms. The herd has stampeded and is coming toward
us, but I will try to save us both."

Without a word Scylla did as she was told, and in a few seconds was
half kneeling, half lying on the ground.

Then Martha struck Dan as hard as she could with her flat hand.

"Hey up, Dan!" said she, "run! run! You needn't stay here, too!"

The horse galloped off into the darkness.

Just then another lighting-flash came and showed a cow-boy leaning far over the neck of his pony, riding
for his life. He passed only a dozen yards from them, but did not see them. Behind him Martha could
dimly see two or three other riders coming toward them at desperate
speed, while still beyond she caught a glimpse of the tossing horns
and lurching heads of the cattle.

Without a moment for thought, and as coolly as if she had nothing in the world to fear, she bent over
trembling Scylla, unfastened the waistband of her dress-skirt and pulled
it deftly from under her.

Then she quickly removed her
own and took one of the bright-colored garments in each hand.

Just then the storm broke furiously. The night was suddenly lighted by
lightning-flashes that followed one another so closely they seemed
to make one long, lasting flare.

The cow-boys had all passed, and Martha saw that the
herd was scarcely two hundred yards away.

She stepped directly in front of Scylla's prostrate form and raised
the skirts.

"Scream, Scylla, scream!" she cried.

Then, while the driving rain fell in torrents, and the lightning made
the prairie as light as day, she stood straight up and waved those
skirts wildly about her head, and shouted at the top of her voice.

She was dimly conscious that her shouts shaped themselves into a prayer
that her brother was safe, and that the herd might divide and pass
them. Her face was as pale as paper. Her long hair was tossed about
by the wind, and by her own violent motions.

The foremost of the cattle was only a hundred yards away now. She
could see the lightning shining on his horns and in his red, rolling
eyes. He was coming straight toward her. Louder she shouted and more
wildly she swung the skirts. Would he crush her, or would he turn
aside? She felt an almost overpowering impulse to turn and run away,
but that would mean certain death. Her only hope was to keep her position
firmly, and to swing her skirts and scream. If the first steer swerved
and passed her, his followers might do so too.

He seemed of mammoth
proportions as he lurched toward her. His head was lowered, and his
great hoofs pounded the ground like trip-hammers. Closer! Closer!
He was not twenty feet away. His big, crazy eyes seemed to look straight
into hers. Closer! Closer!--Then he changed his course a trifle. In
an instant he had passed her like a great fury. Others were only a
few feet behind him, and back of them was the compact mass of the
herd. She screamed louder and redoubled her waving.

"They say that he is a tumble, tumble man," the blacksmith averred, ever and anon rubbing the
stump of his amputated hammer-arm, in which, though bundled in its jeans' sleeve, he had the
illusion of the sensation of its hand and fingers. He suddenly shaded his brow with his broad
palm to eye that significant line which marked the road among the pines on the eastern slope,
beyond the Indian corn that stood tall and rank of growth in the rich bottom-lands.

Ethelinda's heart sank. All unprescient of the day's impending event, she had come to the forge
with the sley of her loom to be mended, and she now stood holding the long shaft in her mechanical
clasp, while she listened spell-bound to the agitated talk of the group. The boughs of a great
yellow hickory waved above her head; near by was the trough, and here a horse, brought to be
shod, was utilizing the interval by a draught; he had ceased to draw in the clear, cold spring
water, but still stood with his muzzle close to the surface, his lips dripping, gazing with
un-imagined thoughts at the reflection of his big equine eyes, the blue sky inverted, the dappling
yellow leaves, more golden even than the sunshine, and the glimmering flight of birds, with
a stellular light upon their wings. 

The dough was of the mias cakes, equanimous of rye-flour, ointment, orange-water, and new-laid foodstuff;[5] and
the intact was sparse among the guests by Guillaume; the legion himself having been compelled to
submit his middle at fare by the Look.

"So would I." The miller laughed uneasily. But for the corrugations of time, one might not
have known if it were flour or age that had so whitened his long beard, which hung quivering
down over the breast of his jeans coat, of an indeterminate hue under its frosting from the
hopper. "He hev tuk up a tumble spite at Tanglefoot Cove."

The blacksmith nodded. "They say that he 'lowed ez traitors orter be treated like traitors.
But I be a-goin' ter tell him that the Confederacy hev got one arm off'n me more'n its entitled
to, an' I'm willin' ter call it quits at that."

"'Tain't goin' ter do him no good ter raid the Cove," an ancient farmer averred; "an' it's
agin' the rebel rule, ennyhows, ter devastate the kentry they live off'n--it's like sawin'
off the bough ye air sittin' on." His eyes dwelt with a fearful affection on the laden fields;
his old stoop-shouldered back had bent yet more under the toil that had brought his crop to
this perfection, with the aid of the children whose labor was scarcely worth the strenuosity
requisite to control their callow wiles. 

We couldn't tell by the way he was acting whether she was an old friend or some girl he met a few hours ago.
Shiela didn't want to let him go, though, and held onto his hand a
bit longer than was necessary. With her look, she tried to tell convey
how much she cared about him and let him know that she was always going
to be a friend to him.

But he was avoiding her face, so he didn't get to see it.

He took
off at once, quickly getting lost in the crowd that was the Cincinnati Convention.

She was too enmeshed in her own thoughts to notice how nice Mrs. Lorraine
and Mrs. Kavanagh were being to her. She was confused, because he
was her long lost friend. Physically, he was right beside her, but
his mind was in a place that she could not touch, and it broke her
heart.
An' that guerilla, Ackert, hed been ridin' a hundred mile at a hand-gallop ter overhaul him,
an' knowin' thar warn't but one outlet to Tanglefoot Cove, he expected ter capshur the Feds
as they kem out agin. So he sot himself ter ambush Tolhurst, an' waited fur him up thar amongst
the pines an' the laurel--an' he waited--an' waited! But Tolhurst never came! So whenst the
guerilla war sure he hed escaped by ways unknownst he set out ter race him down ter the Cohutty
Mountings. But Tolhurst had j'ined the main body o' the Federal Army, an' now Ackert is showing
a clean pair o' heels comin' back. But he be goin' ter take time ter raid the Cove--his hurry
will wait fur that! Somebody in Tanglefoot--the Lord only knows who--showed Tolhurst that underground
way out ter Greenbrier Cove, through a sorter cave or tunnel in the mountings."

"Now--now--neighbor--that's guesswork," remonstrated the miller, in behalf of Tanglefoot Cove
repudiating the responsibility. Perhaps the semi-mercantile occupation of measuring toll sharpens
the faculties beyond natural endowments, and he began to perceive a certain connection between
cause and effect inimical to personal interest.

"Waal, that is the way they went, sartain sure," protested the blacksmith. "I tracked 'em,
the ground bein' moist, kase I wanted ter view the marks o' their horses' hoofs. They hev got
some powerful triflin' blacksmiths in the army--farriers, they call 'em. I los' the trail amongst
the rocks an' ledges down todes the cave--though it's more like one o' them tunnels we-uns
used ter go through in the railroads in the army, but this one was never made with hands; jes'
hollowed out by Sinking Creek. So I got Jube thar ter crope through, an' view ef thar war any
hoof marks on t'other side whar the cave opens out in Greenbrier Cove."

"An' a body would think fur sure ez the armies o' hell had been spewed out'n that black hole,"
said a lean man whom the glance of the blacksmith had indicated as Jube, and who spoke in the
intervals of a racking cough that seemed as if it might dislocate his bones in its violence.
"Hoof marks hyar--hoof-marks thar--as if they didn't rightly know which way ter go in the marshy
ground 'bout Sinking Creek. But at last they 'peared ter git tergether, an' off they tracked
ter the west----" A paroxysm of coughs intervened, and the attention of the group failed to
follow the words that they interspersed.

"They tuk a short cut through the Cove--they warn't in it a haffen hour," stipulated the prudent
miller. "They came an' went like a flash. Nobody seen 'em 'cept the Brusies, kase they went
by thar house--an' ef they hed hed a guide, old Randal Brusie would hev named it."

"Ackert 'lows he'll hang the guide ef he ketches him," said the blacksmith, in a tone of awe.
"Leastwise that's the word that's 'goin'."

Poor Ethelinda! The clutch of cold horror about her heart seemed to stop its pulsations for
a moment. She saw the still mountains whirl about the horizon as if in some weird bewitchment.
Her nerveless hands loosened their clasp upon the sley and it fell to the ground, clattering
on the protruding roots of the trees. The sound attracted the miller's attention. He fixed
his eyes warily upon her, a sudden thought looking out from their network of wrinkles.

"You didn't see no guide whenst they slipped past you-uns' house, did ye?"

Poor, unwilling casuist! She had an instinct for the truth in its purest sense, the innate
impulse toward the verities unspoiled by the taint of sophistication. Perhaps in the restricted
conditions of her life she had never before had adequate temptation to a subterfuge. With a degree
of pleasantry and acumen peculiar to northern criticism, he asks, "Where has Mr. Hope hidden
all his eloquence and poetry up to this hour?

How is it that he has, all of a sudden, burst out into descriptions
which would not disgrace the pen of Tacitus, and displayed a depth
of feeling and vigour of imagination which Lord Byron could not excel?

We do not shrink from one syllable of this eulogy." The subjects upon which Mr. Hope had previously
written were not calculated to call forth his eloquent feeling; and,
such excellence was not expected from him, who, to use the harmless
satire of the Edinburgh reviewer, "meditated muffineers and planned
pokers."

This was no praise of party: contemporary criticism universally allowed
Anastasius to be a work in which great and extraordinary talent is
evinced. It abounds in sublime passages--in sense--in knowledge of history,
and in knowledge of human character;--and the rapid sale of three
editions has proved these superior characteristics to have been amply
recognised by the reading public.

The work in its fourth edition still enjoys a good sale. In each reprint the nicety of the
writer is traceable: the corrections and alterations in the metaphysical
portions on such passages as illustrate points of character, are elaborated
with exquisite skill, and fresh turns of scholarly elegance are observable
throughout each volume of the work.

Memory has probably in some instances enabled the author to re-touch his pictures of Eastern
scenery, and rearrange his grouping of particular incidents. What a delightful labour of leisure
must this have been for so ingenious a mind! One of his similes--a weeping lady's eyes compared
to violets steeped in dew--has never been out of our recollection; and one of his battle scenes
almost makes the reader imagine himself transfixed to the spot by
a weapon of the contest.

Mr. Hope married, in 1806, the Hon. Louisa Beresford, daughter of the late Lord Decies, Archbishop of Tuam,
and sister of the present peer, by whom he has left three sons, the eldest of whom, Mr. Henry
Hope, was groom of the bedchamber to the late king, and recently took his seat in parliament for
the borough of West Looe. Of their highly-gifted and accomplished mother we know many amiable traits;
and, however bright may have been her fashionable splendour in high life, it is more than counterbalanced
by her active benevolence in the county, in visiting the homes and
relieving the distresses of the poor of the neighbourhood.

Of Mr. Hope's literary acquirements and his patronage of the liberal arts we have already spoken.
It is, however, grateful to be enabled to refer to special acts of such patronage. It should not,
therefore, be forgotten, that to the liberality of Mr. Hope, Thorwalsden, the celebrated Danish sculptor,
is chiefly indebted for a fostering introduction to the world: we have seen at the liberal patron's
seat, Deepdene, a stupendous boar of spotless marble, for which the sculptor received a commission
of one thousand guineas. Mr. Hope, too, was one of the earliest of the patrons of Mr. George Dawe,
R.A. In a memoir of this fortunate and distinguished painter we find that "Andromache soliciting
the Life of her Son," from a scene in the French play entitled "Andromache," was purchased by
Mr. Hope, "who, in the most liberal manner, marked his approbation of Dawe's talents by favouring
him with several commissions for family portraits, especially a half-length
of Mrs. Hope, with two of her children, and two whole-lengths of the
lady singly." To the useful as well as elegant arts Mr. Hope's encouragement
was extended; and for the last ten years he has filled the office
of one of the Vice-presidents of the Society of Arts and Sciences
in the Adelphi.

Mr. Hope usually passed "the season" at his superb mansion in Duchess-street, Portland-place, where
he had assembled a valuable collection of works of art, altogether unrivalled, and comprising paintings,
antique statues, busts, vases, and other relics of antiquity, arranged in apartments, the furniture and
decorations of which were in general designed after classic models, by the ingenious possessor himself.
Among the sculpture is the exquisite Venus rising from the Bath, by Canova. The whole of these valuables
were open to the public, under certain restrictions, during "the
season." Mr. Hope likewise possessed one of the most delightful estates
in the county of Surrey--viz. the Deepdene, near Dorking, to which
he annexed Chart Park, purchased from the devisees of the late Sir
Charles Talbot, Bart. the building itself, yet
there is nothing so overwhelming to the nerves as the approaching rush of a speedy horse, and
the group flattened themselves against the wall; but he drew rein before he reached the door,
and whirling in the saddle, with one hand on the horse's back, he demanded:

"Where is he? Bring him out!" as if all the world knew the object of his search and the righteous
reason of his enmity. "Bring him out! I'll have a drumhead court martial--and he'll swing before
sunset!"

"Good evenin', Cap'n," the old miller sought what influence might appertain to polite address
and the social graces.

"Evenin' be damned!" cried Ackert, angrily. "If you folks in the coves want the immunity of
non-combatants, by Gawd! you gotter preserve the neutrality of non-combatants!"

"Yessir--that's reason--that's jestice," said the old squire, hastily, whose capacities of
ratiocination had been cultivated by the exercise of the judicial functions of his modest piepoudre
court.

Ackert unwillingly cast his eagle eye down upon the cringing old man, as if he would rather
welcome contradiction than assent.

"It's accordin' to the articles o' war and the law of nations," he averred. "People take advantage
of age and disability"--he glanced at the blacksmith, whose left hand mechanically grasped
the stump of his right arm--"as if that could protect 'em in acts o' treason an' treachery;"
then with a blast of impatience, "Where's the man?"

To remonstrate with a whirlwind, to explain to a flash of lightning, to soothe and propitiate
the fury of a conflagration--the task before the primitive and inexpert Cove-dwellers seemed
to partake of this nature.

"Cap'n--ef ye'd listen ter what I gotter say," began the miller.

"I'll listen arterward!" exclaimed Ackert, in his clarion voice. He had never heard of Jedburgh
justice, but he had all the sentiment of that famous tribunal who hanged the prisoners first
and tried them afterward.

"Cap'n," remonstrated the blacksmith, breaking in with hot haste, hurried by the commander's
gusts of impatience, forgetful that he had no need to be precipitate, since he could not produce
the recusant if he would. "Cap'n--Cap'n--bear with us--we-uns don't know!"

Ackert stared in snorting amaze, a flush of anger dyeing his red cheeks a yet deeper red. Of
all the subterfuges that he had expected, he had never divined this. He shifted front face
in his saddle, placed his gauntleted right hand on his right side, and held his head erect,
looking over the wide, rich expanse of the Cove, the corn in the field, and the fodder in the
shock set amid the barbaric splendors of the wooded autumn mountains glowing in the sunset
above. He seemed scenting his vengeance with some keen sense as he looked, his thin nostrils
dilating as sensitively as the nostrils of his high-couraged charger now throwing up his head
to sniff the air, now bending it down as he pawed the ground.

"Well, gentlemen, you have got a mighty pretty piece o' country here, and good crops, too--which
is a credit to you, seeing that the conscription has in and about drafted all the able-bodied
mountaineers that wouldn't volunteer--damn 'em! But I swear by the right hand of Jehovah, I'll
burn every cabin in the Cove an' every blade o' forage in the fields if you don't produce the
man who guided Tol-hurst's cavalry out'n the trap I'd chased 'em into, or give me a true and
satisfactory account of him." He raised his gauntleted right hand and shook it in the air.
"So help me God!"

There was all the solemnity of intention vibrating in this fierce asseveration, and it brought
the aged non-combatants forward in eager protestation. The old justice made as if to catch
at the bridle rein, then desisted. A certain noli me tangere influence about the fierce guerilla
affected even supplication, and the "Squair" resorted to logic as the more potent weapon of
the two.

"Cap'n, Cap'n," he urged, with a tremulous, aged jaw, "be pleased to consider my words. I'm
a magistrate sir, or I was before the war run the law clean out o' the kentry. We dun'no' the
guide--we never seen the troops." Then, in reply to an impatient snort of negation: "If ye'll
cast yer eye on the lay of the land, ye'll view how it happened. Thar's the road "--he waved
his hand toward that vague indentation in the foliage that marked the descent into the vale--"an'
down this e-end o' the Cove thar's nex' ter nobody livin'."

The spirited equestrian figure was stand-ing as still as a statue; only the movement of the
full pupils of his eyes, the dilation of the nostrils, showed how nearly the matter touched
his tense nerves.

"Some folks in the upper e-end of the Cove 'lowed afterward they hearn a hawn; some folks spoke
of a shakin' of the ground like the trompin' of horses--but them troops mus' hev passed from
the foot o' the mounting acrost the aidge of the Cove."

"Scant haffen mile," put in the blacksmith, "down to a sort of cave, or tunnel, that runs under
the mounting--yander--that lets 'em out into Greenbrier Cove."

"Gawd!" exclaimed the guerilla, striking his breast with his clenched, gauntleted hand as his
eyes followed with the vivacity of actual sight the course of the march of the squadron of
horse to the point of their triumphant vanishment. Despite the vehemence of the phrase the
intonation was a very bleat of desperation. For it was a rich and rare opportunity thus wrested
from him by an untoward fate. In all the chaotic chances of the Civil War he could hardly hope
for its repetition. It was part of a crack body of regulars--Tolhurst's squadron--that he had
contrived to drive into this trap, this cul-de-sac, surrounded by the infinite fastnesses of
the Great Smoky Mountains. It had been a running fight, for Tolhurst had orders, as Ackert
had found means of knowing, to join the main body without delay, and his chief aim was to shake
off this persistent pursuit with which a far inferior force had harassed his march. What right
had he to come away up to the North and carry off the very pride of the island? Were English
girls not good enough for him, that he must needs come up and take away Sheila Mackenzie, and
keep her there in the South so that her friends and acquaintances saw no more of her? Before the
marriage Mairi had a great liking and admiration for Mr. Lavender.

She was so pleased to see Miss Sheila pleased that she approved of the young man, and thanked
him in her heart for making her cousin and mistress so obviously happy. Perhaps, indeed, Mairi
managed to fall in love with him a little bit herself, merely by force of example and through
sympathy with Sheila; and she was rapidly forming very good opinions of the English race and
their ways and their looks. But when Lavender took away Sheila from Borva a change came over
Mairi's sentiments. She gradually fell in with the current opinions of the island--that it
was a great pity Sheila had not married young Mr. Maclntyre of Sutherland, or some one who would
have allowed her to remain among her own people. Mairi began to think that the English, though
they were handsome and good-natured and free with their money, were on the whole a selfish race,
inconsiderate and forgetful of promises. She began to dislike the English, and wished they would
stay in their own country, and not interfere with other people.

"I hope he is very well," said Mairi dutifully: she could at least say that honestly.

"You will see him at two o'clock. He is coming in to luncheon; and he does not know you are here,
and you are to be a great surprise to him, Mairi. And there is to be a greater surprise still; for we
are going to make one of the rooms into the drawing-room at home; and you must open your boxes,
and bring me down the heather and the peat, Mairi, and the two bottles;
and then, you know, when the salmon is on the table, and the whisky
and the beer, and Bras lying on the hearth-rug, and the peat-smoke
all through the room, then you will come in and shake hands with him,
and he will think he is in Borva again."

Mairi was a little puzzled.

She did not understand the intention of this strange thing. But she went and fetched the materials
she had brought with her from Lewis, and Sheila and she set to work.

It was a pleasant enough occupation for this bright forenoon, and Sheila, as she heard Mairi's sweet
Highland speech, and as she brought from all parts of the house the
curiosities sent her from the Hebrides, would almost have fancied she was
superintending a "cleaning" of that museum-like little drawing-room
at Borva. Skins of foxes, seals and deer, stuffed eagles and strange
fishes, masses of coral and wonderful carvings in wood brought from
abroad, shells of every size from every clime,--all these were brought
together into Frank Lavender's smoking-room.

The ordinary ornaments of the mantelpiece gave way
to fanciful arrangements of peacocks' feathers. Fresh-blown ling and
the beautiful spikes of the bell-heather formed the staple of the
decorations, and Mairi had brought enough to adorn an assembly-room.

"That
is like the Lewis people," Sheila said with a laugh: she had not been
in as happy a mood for many a day. "I asked you to bring one peat,
and of course you brought two. His horses were
well groomed, well fed, fine travellers, and many showed the brand U.S., for he could mount
his troop when need required from the corrals of an unsuspecting encampment. He was the ideal
guerilla, of infinite service to his faction in small, significant operations of disproportioned
importance.

What wonder that his name was rife in rumors which flew about the country; that soon it was
not only "the grapevine telegraph" that vibrated with the sound, but he was mentioned in official
despatches; nay, on one signal occasion the importance of his dashing exploit was recognized
by the commander of the Army Corps in a general order published to specially commend it. Naturally
his spirit rose to meet these expanding liberties of achievement. He looked for further promotion--for
eminence. In a vague glimmer, growing ever stronger and clearer, he could see himself in the
astral splendor of the official stars of a major-general--for in the far day of the anticipated
success of the Confederacy he looked to be an officer of the line.

And now suddenly this light was dimmed; his laurels were wilting. What prestige would the capture
of Tolhurst have conferred! Never had a golden opportunity like this been lost--by what uncovenanted
chance had Tolhurst escaped!

"He must have had a guide! Right here in the Cove!" Ackert exclaimed. "Nobody outside would
know a hole in the ground, a cave, a water-gap, a tunnel like that! Where's the man?"

"Naw, sir--naw, Cap'n! Nobody viewed the troop but one gal person an' she 'lowed she never
seen no guide."

The charger whirled under the touch of the hand on the rein, and Ackert's eyes scanned with
a searching intentness the group.

"Where's this girl--you?"

As the old squire with most unwelcome officiousness seized Ethelinda's arm and hurried her
forward, her heart sank within her. For one moment the guerilla's fiery, piercing eyes dwelt
upon her as she stood looking on, her delicately white face grown deathly pallid, her golden
hair frivolously blowsed in the wind, which tossed the full skirts of her lilac-hued calico
gown till she seemed poised on the very wings of flight. Her sapphire eyes, bluer than ever
azure skies could seem, sought to gaze upward, but ever and anon their long-lashed lids fluttered
and fell.

He was quick of perception.

"You have no call to be afraid," he remarked--a sort of gruff upbraiding, as if her evident
trepidation impugned his justice in reprisal. "Come, you can guide me. Show me just where they
came in, and just where they got out--damn 'em!"

She could scarcely control her terror when she saw that he intended her to ride with him to
the spot, yet she feared even more to draw back, to refuse. He held out one great spurred boot.
Her little low-cut shoe looked tiny upon it as she stepped up. He swung her to the saddle behind
him, and the great warhorse sprang forward so suddenly, with such long, swift strides, that
she swayed precariously for a moment and was glad to catch the guerilla's belt--to seize, too,
with an agitated clutch, his right gauntlet that he held backward against his side. His fingers
promptly closed with a reassuring grasp on hers, and thus skimming the red sunset-tide they
left behind them the staring group about the blacksmith shop, which the cavalrymen had now
approached, watering their horses at the trough and lifting the saddles to rest the animals
from the constriction of the pressure of the girths.

Soon the guerilla and the girl disappeared in the distance; the fences flew by; the shocks
of corn seemed all a-trooping down the fields; the evening star in the red haze above the purple
western mountains had spread its invisible pinions, and was a-wing above their heads. Presently
the heavy shadows of the looming wooded range, darkening now, showing only blurred effects
of red and brown and orange, fell upon them, and the guerilla checked the pace, for the horse
was among boulders and rough ledges that betokened the dry bed of a stream. Great crags had
begun to line the way, first only on one marge of the channel; then; the clifty banks appeared
on the other side, and at length a deep> black-arched opening yawned beneath the mountains,
glooming with sepulchral shadows; in the silence one might hear drops trickling vaguely and
the sudden hooting of an owl from within.

He drew up his horse abruptly, and contemplated the grim aperture.

"So they came into Tanglefoot down the road, and went out of the Cove by this tunnel?"

"Yessir!" she piped. What had befallen her voice? what appalled eerie squeak was this! She
cleared her throat timorously. "They couldn't hev done it later in the fall season. Tanglefoot
Creek gits ter runnin' with the fust rains."

"An' Tolhurst knew that too! He must have had a guide--a guide that knows the Cove like I know
the palm of my hand! Well, I'll catch him yet, sometime. I'll hang him! I'll hang him--if I
have to grow a tree a-pur-pose."

What strange influence had betided the landscape? Around and around circled the great stationary
mountains anchored in the foundations of the earth. It was a long moment before they were still
again--perhaps, indeed, it was the necessity of guarding her balance on the fiery steed, a
new cause of apprehension, that paradoxically steadied Ethelinda's nerves. Ackert had dismounted,
throwing the reins over his arm. He had caught sight of the hoof marks along the moist sandy
spaces of the channel, mute witness in point of number, and a guaranty of the truth of her
story. A sudden glitter arrested his eyes. He stooped and picked up a broken belt-buckle with
the significant initials U.S. yet showing upon it.

"I'll hang that guide yet," he muttered, his eyes dark with angry conviction, his face lowering
with fury. "I'll hang him--I won't expect to prove it p'int blank. Jes' let me git a mite o'
suspicion, an' I'll guarantee the slipknot!"

She could never understand her motive, her choice of the moment.

"Cap'n Ackert," she trembled forth. There was so much significance in her tone that, standing
at her side, he looked up in sudden expectation. She was really beautiful, she was delicate, and looked like an
aerial shape dancing in the peam of poes, she was gentle and playful and very expressive. She looked
like a silvan goddes, which artists love to picture and whose employment
is to chase one another on the green bank, or in the transparent wave.

Guillaume
really loved the beautiful bourgeoise. Later he learnt that such
love was a condescension. Amable inquired whether she possessed love
at all when her father refused her heart to Guillaume.

She then realized that she had given her heart to him a long time ago.


"But--but--you mustn't hang--nobody else on s'picion!"

There was a vague change in the expression of his face. He still stood beside the saddle, with
the reins over his arm, while the horse threw his head almost to the ground and again tossed
it aloft in his impatient weariness of the delay.

"An' now you are captured yourself," he said, sternly. "You are accountable fur your actions."

She burst into a paroxysm of sobs. "I never went ter tell! I meant ter keep the secret! The
folks in the Cove dun'no' nuthin'. But--oh, ye mustn't s'picion nobody else--ye mustn't hang
nobody else!"

Once more that indescribable change upon his face.

"You showed him the way to this pass yourself? Tell the truth!"

"He war ridin' his horse-critter--'tain't ez fast, nor fine, nor fat ez yourn."

He stroked the glossy mane with a sort of mechanical pride.

"And so he went plumb through the cave?"

"An' all the troop--they kindled pine-knots fur torches."

He glanced about him at the convenient growths.

"And they came out all safe in Greenbrier!" He winced. How the lost opportunity hurt him!

"Yessir. In Greenbrier Cove."

"Did he pay you in gold?" sneered Ackert. "Or in greenbacks? Or mebbe in Cornfed money?"

"I wouldn't hev his gold." She drew herself up proudly, though the tears were still coursing
down her cheeks. "So he gin me a present--a whole passel o' coffee in my milk-piggin." Then
to complete a candid confession she detailed the disposition she had made of this rare and
precious luxury at the rebel smallpox camp.

His eyes seemed to dilate as they gazed up at her. "Jesus Gawd!" he exclaimed, with uncouth
profanity. But the phrase was unfamiliar to her, and she caught at it with a meaning all her own.

"That's jes' it! Folks in gineral don't think o' them, 'cept ter git out o' thar way; an' nobody
keers fur them, but kase Jesus is Gawd He makes somebody remember them wunst in a while! An'
they did seem passable glad."

A vague sweet fragrance was on the vesperal air; some subtle distillation of asters or jewel-weed
or "mountain-snow," and the leafage of crimson sumac and purple sweet-gum and yellow hickory
and the late ripening frost-grapes--all in the culmination of autumnal perfection; more than
one star gleamed whitely palpitant in a sky that was yet blue and roseate with a reminiscence
of sunset; a restful sentiment, a brief truce stilled the guerilla's tempestuous pulse as he
continued to stand beside his horse's head while the girl waited, seated on the saddle blanket. 

What was the use of regret? What harm could befall her heart in the keeping of such a handsome, generous, and
brave young man as Guillaume. Amable turned from her father's disapproving gaze with a light laugh,
and light of step, stealthily skipped round the garden wall and bounded
towards the grove of wild shrubs at the far end.

The sun bathed the tree with its light, and the air hummed with the
sweet sound of birdsong. Heaven's face was undimmed by a single spot
of shade, and green earth sparked with beauty beneath it.

Such was the scene, but Amable's mind was caught with a warmer and even brighter sun, shining
upon her maiden dreams, while the sweet rich voice of Hope in her heart drowned the melody of the woods. "Away!"
she thought, "This strange, unkindly mood cannot endure. My father loves his friend despita
all, and the noble, generous knight could not hate if he would. Both will
regret what has passed within the week, and when they meet again, I will
tease them into a confession that they have done so. Then the two
friends will embrace, and Guillaume and I will dance, sing, and read
together once again."

Then it seemed as if her thoughts had run out of breath, for her reverie
paused and hung back for a moment, while a blush rose suddenly to her
very eyes.

Forthwith he mounted again, and the great charger galloped back, carrying double, in the red
afterglow of the sunset, to the waiting group before the flaring doors of the forge.

The fine flower of romance had blossomed incongruously in that eager heart in those fierce
moments of the bitterness of defeat. Life suddenly had a new meaning, a fair and fragrant promise,
and often and again he looked over his shoulder at the receding scene when the trumpets sang
"to horse," and in the light of the moon the guerilla rode out of Tanglefoot Cove.

But Ethelinda saw him never again. All the storms of fate overwhelmed the Confederacy with
many a rootless hope and many a plan and pride. In lieu of the materialization of the stalwart
ambition of distinction that had come to dominate his life, responsive to the discovery of
his peculiar and inherent gifts, his destiny was chronicled in scarce a line of the printed
details of a day freighted with the monstrous disaster of a great battle; in common with others
of the "missing" his bones were picked by the vultures till shoved into a trench, where a monument
rises to-day to commemorate an event and not a commander. Fifty cows moved around her; she was standing
in the middle of the herd. The ground beneath her shook with their movement. She tried to scream, but
she couldn't hear the sound of it.


