THE BELLS OF SAN JUAN

A Novel

by

JACKSON GREGORY

Author of Judith of Blue Lake Ranch, The Joyous Trouble Maker, Man to Man, etc.

Illustrated by Frank Tenney Johnson

New York Grosset & Dunlap Publishers

1919

[Frontispiece: Having come closer he reined in his horse, stared at her a moment in surprised
wonderment. . .]

TO

RODERICK NORTON GREGORY

CONTENTS

FOREWORD--THE BELLS

CHAPTER

     I.  THE BELLS RING
    II.  THE SHERIFF OF SAN JUAN
   III.  A MAN'S BOOTS
    IV.  AT THE BANKER'S HOME
     V.  IN THE DARKNESS OF THE PATIO
    VI.  A RIDE THROUGH THE NIGHT
   VII.  IN THE HOME OF CLIFF-DWELLERS
  VIII.  JIM GALLOWAY'S GAME
    IX.  YOUNG PAGE COMES TO TOWN
     X.  A BRIBE AND A THREAT
    XI.  THE FIGHT AT LA CASA BLANCA
   XII.  WAVERING IN THE BALANCE
  XIII.  CONCEALMENT
   XIV.  A FREE MAN
    XV.  THE KING'S PALACE
   XVI.  THE MEXICAN FROM MEXICO
  XVII.  A STACK OF GOLD PIECES
 XVIII.  DESIRE OUTWEIGHS DISCRETION
   XIX.  DEADLOCK
    XX.  FLUFF AND BLACK BILL
   XXI.  A CRISIS
  XXII.  THE BEGINNING OF THE END
 XXIII.  THE STRONG HAND OF GALLOWAY
  XXIV.  IN THE OPEN
   XXV.  THE BATTLE IN THE ARROYO
  XXVI.  THE BELLS RING

ILLUSTRATIONS

Having come closer he reined in his horse, stared at her a moment in surprised wonderment .
. . .  Frontispiece

Then came the second meeting with Jim Galloway

"Come, and I'll share my secret with you"

On through the bright moonlight came the sheriff's posse

FOREWORD

THE BELLS

He who has not heard the bells of San Juan has a journey yet to make. He who has not set foot
upon the dusty road which is the one street of San Juan, at times the most silent and deserted
of thoroughfares, at other times a mad and turbulent lane between sun-dried adobe walls, may
yet learn something of man and his hopes, desires, fears and ruder passions from a pin-point
upon the great southwestern map.

The street runs due north and south, pointing like a compass to the flat gray desert in the
one direction, and in the other to the broken hills swept up into the San Juan mountains. 
At the northern end, that is toward the more inviting mountains, is the old Mission.  To right
and left of the whitewashed corridors in a straggling garden of pear-trees and olives and yellow
roses are two rude arches made of seasoned cedar.  From the top cross-beam of each hang three
bells.

They have their history, these bells of San Juan, and the biggest with its deep, mellow voice,
the smallest with its golden chimes, seem to be chanting it when they ring.  Each swinging
tongue has its tale to tell, a tale of old Spain, of Spanish galleons and Spanish gentlemen
adventurers, of gentle-voiced priests and sombre-eyed Indians, of conquest, revolt, intrigue,
and sudden death.  When a baby is born in San Juan, a rarer occurrence than a strong man's
death, the littlest of the bells upon the western arch laughs while it calls to all to hearken;
when a man is killed, the angry-toned bell pendant from the eastern arch shouts out the word
to go billowing across the stretches of sage and greasewood and gama-grass; if one of the later-day
frame buildings bursts into flame, Ignacio Chavez warns the town with a strident clamor, tugging
frantically; be it wedding or discovery of gold or returns from the county elections, the bell-ringer
cunningly makes the bells talk.

Out on the desert a man might stop and listen, forming his surmise as the sounds surged to
meet him through the heat and silence.  He might smile, if he knew San Juan, as he caught the
jubilant message tapped swiftly out of the bronze bell which had come, men said, with Coronado;
he might sigh at the lugubrious, slow-swelling voice of the big bell which had come hitherward
long ago with the retinue of Marco de Niza, wondering what old friend or enemy, perchance,
had at last closed his ears to all of Ignacio Chavez's music.  Or, at a sudden fury of clanging,
the man far out on the desert might hurry on, goading his burro impatiently, to know what great
event had occurred in the old adobe town of San Juan.

It is three hundred and fifty years and more since the six bells of San Juan came into the
new world to toll across that land of quiet mystery which is the southwest.  It is a hundred
years since an all-but-forgotten priest, Francisco Calderón, found them in various devastated
mission churches, assembled them, and set them chiming in the old garden.  There, among the
pear-trees and olives and yellow roses, they still cast their shadows in sun and moonlight,
in silence, and in echoing chimes.

CHAPTER I

THE BELLS RING

Ignacio Chavez, Mexican that he styled himself, Indian that the community deemed him, or "breed"
of badly mixed blood that he probably was, made his loitering way along the street toward the
Mission.  A thin, yellowish-brown cigarita dangling from his lips, his wide, dilapidated conical
hat tilted to the left side of his head in a listless sort of concession to the westering sun,
he was, as was customary with him, utterly at peace.  Ten minutes ago he had had twenty cents;
two minutes after the acquisition of his elusive wealth he had exchanged the two dimes for
whiskey at the Casa Blanca; the remaining eight minutes of the ten he required to make his
way, as he naively put it, "between hell and heaven."

For from a corner of the peaceful old Mission garden at one end of the long street one might
catch a glimpse of the Casa Blanca at the other end sprawling in the sun; between the two sturdy
walled buildings had the town strung itself as it grew.  As old a relic as the church itself
was La Casa Blanca, and since San Juan could remember, in all matters antipodal to the religious
calm of the padres' monument.  Deep-shaded doorways let into the three-feet-thick earthen walls,
waxed floors, green tables, and bar and cool looking-glasses . . . a place which invited, lured,
held, and frequently enough finally damned.

San Juan, in the languid philosophy of Ignacio Chavez, was what you will.  It epitomized the
universe.  You had everything here which the soul of man might covet.  Never having dwelt elsewhere
since his mother bore him here upon the rim of the desert and with the San Juan mountains so
near that, Ignacio Chavez pridefully knew, a man standing upon the Mesa Alta might hear the
ringing of his bells, he experienced a pitying contempt for all those other spots in the world
which were so plainly less favored.  What do you wish, señor?  Fine warm days?  You have them
here.  Nice cool nights for sound slumber?  Right here in San Juan, amigo mío.  A desert across
which the eye may run without stopping until it be tired, a wonderful desert whereon at dawn
and dusk God weaves all of the alluring soft mists of mystery?  Shaded cañons at noonday with
water and birds and flowers?  Behold the mountains. Everything desirable, in short.  That there
might be men who desired the splash of waves, the sheen of wet beaches, the boom of surf, did
not suggest itself to one who had never seen the ocean.  So, then, San Juan was "what you will."
A man may fix his eye upon the little Mission cross which is always pointing to heaven and
God; or he may pass through the shaded doors of the Casa Blanca, which, men say, give pathway
into hell the shortest way.

Ignacio, having meditatively enjoyed his whiskey and listened smilingly to the tinkle of a
mandolin in the patio under a grape-vine arbor, had rolled his cigarette and turned his back
square upon the devil . . . of whom he had no longer anything to ask.  As he went out he stopped
in the doorway long enough to rub his back against a corner of the wall and to strike a match.
Then, almost inaudibly humming the mandolin air, he slouched out into the burning street.

For twenty years he had striven with the weeds in the Mission garden, and no man during that
time dared say which had had the best of it, Ignacio Chavez or the interloping alfileria and
purslane.  In the matters of a vast leisureliness and tumbling along the easiest way they resembled
each other, these two avowed enemies.  For twenty years he had looked upon the bells as his
own, had filled his eye with them day after day, had thought the first thing in the morning
to see that they were there, regarding them as solicitously in the rare rainy weather as his
old mother regarded her few mongrel chicks.  Twenty full years, and yet Ignacio Chavez was
not more than thirty years old, or thirty-five, perhaps.  He did not know, no one cared.

He was on his way to attack with his bare brown hands some of the weeds which were spilling
over into the walk which led through the garden and to the priest's house.  As a matter of
fact he had awakened with this purpose in mind, had gone his lazy way all day fully purposing
to give it his attention, and had at last arrived upon the scene.  The front gate had finally
broken, the upper hinge worn out; Ignacio carefully set the ramshackly wooden affair back against
the fence, thinking how one of these days he would repair it.  Then he went between the bigger
pear-tree and the lluvia de oro which his own hands had planted here, and stood with legs well
apart considering the three bells upon the easterly arch.

"Que hay, amigos?" he greeted them.  "Do you know what I am going to do for you some fine day?
I will build a little roof over you that runs down both ways to shut out the water when it
rains.  It will make you hoarse, too much wet."

That was one of the few dreams of Ignacio's life; one day he was going to make a little roof
over each arch.  But to-day he merely regarded affectionately the Captain . . . that was the
biggest of the bells . . . the Dancer, second in size, and Lolita, the smallest upon this arch.
Then he sighed and turned toward the other arch across the garden to see how it was with the
Little One, La Golondrina, and Ignacio Chavez.  For it was only fair that at least one of the
six should bear his name.

Changing his direction thus, moving directly toward the dropping sun, he shifted his hat well
over his eyes and so was constrained to note how the weeds were asserting themselves with renewed
insolence.  He muttered a soft "maldito!" at them which might have been mistaken for a caress
and determined upon a merciless campaign of extermination just as soon as he could have fitted
a new handle to his hoe.  Then he paused in front of the Mission steps and lifted his hat,
made an elegant bow, and smiled in his own inimitable, remarkably fascinating way.  For, under
the ragged brim, his eyes had caught a glimpse of a pretty pair of patent-leather slippers,
a prettier pair of black-stockinged ankles, and the hem of a white starched skirt.

Nowhere are there eyes like the eyes of old Mexico.  Deep and soft and soulful, though the
man himself may have a soul like a bit of charred leather; velvety and tender, though they
may belong to an out-and-out cutthroat; expressive, eloquent even, though they are the eyes
of a peon with no mind to speak of; night-black, and like the night filled with mystery.  Ignacio
Chavez lifted such eyes to the eyes of the girl who had been watching him and spontaneously
gave her the last iota of his ready admiration.

"It is a fine day, señorita," he told her, displaying two glistening rows of superb teeth friendliwise.
"And the garden . . .  Ah, que hay más bonito en todo el mundo?  You like it, no?"

It was slow music when Ignacio Chavez spoke, all liquid sounds and tender cadences.  When he
had cursed the weeds it was like love-making. A d in his mouth became a softened th; from the
lips of such as the bell-ringer of San Juan the snapping Gringo oath comes metamorphosed into
a gentle "Gah-tham!"  The girl, to whom the speech of Chavez was something as new and strange
as the face of the earth about her, regarded him with grave, curious eyes.

She was seated against the Mission wall upon the little bench which no one but Ignacio guessed
was to be painted green one of these fine days, a bronze-haired, gray-eyed girl in white skirt
and waist, and with a wide panama hat caught between her clasped hands and her knee. Folks can't
help laughing--they just naturally can't, Ive! You'll be setting there in court, looking ugly as
a gibcat and her lawyer reading them things out. Them cussed lawyers
have a sassy way of----"

Buck got up, kicked his chair off onto
the ground, and in choler uncontrollable, clacked his fists under
Avery's nose and barked:

"Twit me another word--just one other word--and
I'll drive that old nose of yourn clear up into the roof of your head!"

Then

he locked his store door and stumped away across the field to the big
barn, where the remains of Buck's Leviathan Circus reposed in isolated
state.

No one knows by just what course of agonized reasoning he arrived
at his final decision, but at dusk he came back to the store.

With the dumb placidity of some ruminant, Avery was sitting in his same
place on the platform of the emporium.

"Brick," said Ivory, humbly, "I've been thinking back and remembering
what I wrote to her--and it's all of it pretty clear in my mind, 'cause
I never wrote love letters to anyone else.

And I can't face it. I couldn't sit in court and hear it.

I couldn't sit here on this platform in my own home place and face
the people afterward.

I couldn't start on the road with a circus and have the face to stand before the big tent after it
and bark like I used to. They'd grin me out of business.

I'd be backed into the stall. No, I can't do it.

Go down and see what she'll compromise on."

Avery came back after two hours and loomed in the dusk before the platform.
He fixed his eyes on the plug hat that was still lowered in the attitude
of despondency.

"I wrassled with her, Ivory, just the same as if I was handling my
own money, and I beat her down to sixty-six hundred.

She won't take a cent less."

"I'll tell you what that sounds like to
me," snarled Buck, after a moment of meditation.

"It
sounds as if she was going to get five thousand and you was looking
after your little old sixteen hundred."

A couple of tears squeezed out and down over Avery's flabby cheeks.

"This ain't the first time you've misjudged me, when I've been doing
you a favor," said he.

"And it's all on account of the same mis'able woman that I'm misjudged--and
we was living so happy here, me and you.

I wish she was in----" His voice broke.

"I ain't responsible for what I'm saying, Avery," pleaded Buck, contritely.
"You know what things have happened to stir me up the last few hours--yes,
all my life, for that matter.

I ain't been comfortable in mind for thirty years till you come here and cheered me up and showed me what's
what. I appreciate it and I'll prove that to you before we're done.

We'll get along together all right after this.

All is, you must see me through."

Then the two plug hats bent together in earnest conference.

The next morning Avery, armed with an order on the savings bank at
the shire for six thousand six hundred dollars, and with Buck's bank
book in his inside pocket, drove up to the door of Fyles' tavern in
Buck's best carriage, and Signora Rosyelli flipped lightly up beside
the peace commissioner.

He was to pay over the money on the neutral ground at the shire, receive
the letters, put her aboard a train and then come back triumphantly
into that interrupted otium cum dignitate of Smyrna Corner.

For two days a solitary and bereaved plug hat on the emporium's platform
turned its fuzzy gloss toward the bend in the road at the clump of
alders.

But the sleek black nose of Buck's "reader" did not appear.

On the third day the bank book arrived by mail, its account minus six thousand
six hundred dollars, and between its leaves a letter. It was an apologetic
letter, and yet it was flavored with a note of complaint. Brick Avery
stated that after thinking it all over he felt that, having been
misjudged cruelly twice, it might happen again, and being old, he
could not endure griefs of that kind.

He had supported the
first two, but being naturally tender-hearted and easily influenced,
the third might be fatal.

Moreover, the conscience of Signora Rosyelli had troubled her, so he believed, ever since the
affair of the one thousand six hundred dollars.

So he had decided that he would quiet her remorse by marrying her
and taking entire charge of her improved finances.

In fact, so certain was he that she would waste the money--being a
woman fickle and vain--that he had insisted on the marriage, and she,
realizing her dependence on his aid in cashing in, assented, and now
he assured her that as her husband he was entitled to full control
of their affairs--all of which, so the letter delicately hinted, was
serving as retribution and bringing her into a proper frame of mind
to realize her past enormities.

The writer
hoped that his own personal self-sacrifice in thus becoming the instrument of flagellation would
be appreciated by one whom he esteemed highly.

They would be known at the fairs as Moseer and Madame Bottotte, and
would do the genteel and compact gift-sale graft from the buggy--having
the necessary capital now--and would accept the buggy and horse as
a wedding present, knowing that an old friend with forty-three thousand
four hundred dollars still left in the bank would not begrudge this
small gift to a couple just starting out in life, and with deep regard
for him and all inquiring friends, they were, etc.

In the more crucial
moments of his life Buck had frequently refrained from anathema as
a method of relief.

Some situations were
made vulgar and matter-of-fact by sulphurous ejaculation. It dulled
the edge of rancor brutally, as a rock dulls a razor.

Now he merely turned the paper over, took out a stubby lead pencil,
licked it and began to write on the blank side, flattening the paper
on his bank book.

FOR SALE--1 Band Wagon, 1 Swan Chariot, 3 Lion Cages.

He paused here in his laborious scrawl and, despite his resolution
of silence, muttered:

"It's going to be a clean sale.

I don't never in all my life want to hear of a circus, see a circus,
talk circus, see a circus man----"

"Crack 'em down, gents!" squalled the parrot.

It was the first time for many hours that he had heard his master's
voice, and the sound cheered him.

He hooked his beak around a wire and rattled away jovially. He seemed to be relieved by the absence
of the other plug hat that had been absorbing so much of the familiar,
beloved and original plug hat's attention.

Ivory looked up at Elkanah vindictively and then resumed his soliloquy.

"No,

sir, never! Half of circusing is a skin game all through--and I've done my share of the skinning. But to
be skinned twice--me, I. Buck, proprietor--and the last time the
worst, but----"

"Twenty can play it as well as one!" the parrot yelled, cocking his eye over the edge of the cage.

It was an evil scowl that flashed up from under the plug hat, but Elkanah in his new joy was oblivious.

"Me a man that's been all through it from A to Z--my affections trod
on, all confidence in females destroyed and nothing ahead of me all
the rest of my life!

No, sir, I never want to hear of a circus again.

Bit by the mouths I fed--and they thumbing their noses at me.

That trick----"

"It's the old army game!" squealed the parrot, in nerve-racking rasp.

Ivory Buck arose, yanked the bottom off the cage, caught the squawking
bird, wrung his neck, tossed him into the middle of the road, and
then, sucking his bleeding finger, went on writing the copy for his
advertisement.

SUPPER WITH NATICA

By ROBERT E. MACALARNEY

It isn't at all pleasant to burn one's fingers,
but it's worth while burning them now and then, if you have to be
scorched to be near a particularly attractive fire; at least I've
found it that way.

All of which leads me to Natica Drayton--Melsford that was.

I think I'm
the only one of the crew she dragged at her heels who hasn't forgot about things and gone off after
other game; some of them have been lashed to the burning stake of pretty uncomfortable domesticity,
too. As for me--well, I've simply gone on caring, and I think I shall
always go on.

Does she know it? Of course she knows it; always has known it, ever
since that first summer at Sacandaga.

Not that I've been ass enough to say anything after the first time.

I'm only an ordinary sort of chap when it comes to intuition, but somehow I've never plucked
up the cheek to do any talking about my own miserable self; not since
she let me down as gently as she could, while I paddled her back
from Birch Point to the canoe house, with Elephant Mountain ragged-backed
in the moon-haze.

For the life of me I couldn't tell you what it was she said. There was the
drip of water from the paddle as I lifted it, stroke after stroke;
the tiny hiss of smother at the prow, and twisted through it all,
like a gathering string, Natica Melsford's voice, letting me down
easy--as easily as she could.

After I had made fast, I remember feeling that somehow the moonlight
had turned things extremely cold; and I reached for my sweater that
lay in the stern.

I also laughed a great deal too much around
the logs at the bungalow fire, and then drank a deal more than too
much at the clubhouse before turning in.

Maybe it was cowardly to sneak back to town a couple of
days later, "on business," of course--a shabby excuse for a chap that
doesn't dabble in business more than I do.

But I honestly needed to go to get back my equilibrium. I got it,
though, and I've kept it pretty continuously.

And this much is enough for that. Natica Melsford is the only interesting bit about this story, and
let's get back to her.

That winter she married Jack Drayton.

The afternoon we rehearsed for the wedding I looked at her, before we
pranced down the aisle and endured the endless silly giggles of the
bridesmaids, and the usher louts who would fall out of step, and grew
more peevish by the minute.

I looked
her over then, and I said to myself: "You feeble paranoiac, imagine
that girl tying up with you."

Well, I couldn't very well imagine it, although I tried. But I was extremely noisy, and I heard two or
three of the bridesmaids, to say nothing of the maid of honor and
the bridegroom's mamma, tapping their gentle hammers, at my expense,
at the breakfast.

It was a year afterward that I began to fag regularly for the Drayton
establishment.

Jack Drayton, by rights, ought to have been poisoned.

He'd be the first to acknowledge it now. Perhaps if he'd married a girl who insisted on having things out the
moment they began, the things wouldn't have happened.

But Natica Melsford wasn't that sort. She was the kind that simply
looked scorn into and clear through you, when she thought you were
acting low down.

This, with a man strung like Jack was, simply put the fat into the
fire.

It would have been different with me.

I'd--well--I'd have made an abject crawl, to be sure. You see, her knowing
this was the thing that must have always queered me with her.

A woman prefers a man she can get furious at and who'll stick it out a
bit, to one who caves in at the first sign of a frown.

But Jack carried things too far.

No, he didn't mind my frequenting the house. He liked me and I liked
him.

But, all the same, I knew he didn't regard me as a foeman worthy of
his steel. And, although the knowledge made me raw now and then, when
he's come in with his easy, careless way, still I swallowed the mean
feeling because it gave me a chance to see her.

And don't imagine I went around hunting for trouble.

It was at the club one night--I'd just come from the Draytons, and
Jack hadn't been home to dinner--that I heard Rawlins Richardson and
Horace Trevano chattering about Maisie Hartopp.

The "Jo-Jo" song had made the biggest kind of a hit that winter at
the Gaiety, and the hit had been made by the Hartopp singing it to
a stage box which the Johnnies scrambled to bid in nightly.

It seemed like small game for Jack Drayton to be trailing along with the
ruck--the ruck meaning Tony Criswold and the rest of that just-out-of-college
crew--but I didn't need signed affidavits, after five minutes of
club chatter, to know that he was pretty well tied to an avenue window
at Cherry's after the show.

The Ruinart, too,
that kept spouting from the bucket beside it, was a pet vintage of
the Hartopp.

There was a lot of that silly chuckle, and I recalled reading somewhere that
there was a husband belonging to the Hartopp, a medium good welterweight,
who picked up a living flooring easy marks for private clubs at Paterson,
N. J., and the like, and occasionally serving as a punching bag for
the good uns before a championship mill.

What the devil was there to do?
I couldn't answer the riddle.

It sounds like old women's chatter, the meddlesome way I scribble
this down.

It would take a real thing in the line of literature to paint me right,
anyway, I fancy. When a third party keeps mixing in with husband and
wife, he deserves all the slanging that's coming to him; which same
is my last squeal for mercy.

A month went by--two of them. Natica Drayton wasn't the strain that needs
spectacles to see through things. Then, too, I guessed the loving friend
sympathy racket was being worked by some of the bridge whist aggregation
which met up with her every fortnight.

She laughed more than she ought to have done.

This was a bad sign with her.

Once or twice, when the three of us dined together, and she was almost
noisy over the benedictine, I could have choked Jack Drayton, for
he didn't see.

It's not a pretty thing for an outsider
to sit à trois, and see things in a wife's manner that the husband doesn't
or won't see; and worse than that, to know that the wife knows you see
it and that he doesn't. Speak to Jack?

I wouldn't have done it for worlds.

As I said, I'm willing to burn my fingers and even cuddle the hurt;
but I don't meddle with giant firecrackers except on the Fourth of
July, and that didn't come until afterward.

I was to take her to the opera one night--Drayton had the habit of dropping
in for an act or two and then disappearing--but on her own doorstep
she tossed off her carriage wrap and sent Martin back to the stables.

"Let's talk, instead," she said, and she made me coffee in the library,
with one of those French pots that gurgle conveniently when you don't
exactly know what to say.

That pot did a
heap of gurgling before we began to talk.

When she spoke, what she said almost took me off my chair.

"Percy, have you seen the show at the Gaiety?" she asked.

I had seen it more than once, and I said so.

"They tell me there's a song there----" she went on.

"There are a lot of songs," said I.

"There's one in particular."

There wasn't any use in fencing, so I answered: "You mean the 'Jo-Jo'
song. It's a silly little ditty, and it's sung by----"

"A girl named Hartopp--Maisie Hartopp."

She was speaking as if she were trying to remember where she'd heard the
name.

Of course,
me for the clumsy speech. "She's a winner," I cut in.

She got up at
that, and walked over to the fireplace. "She seems to be," she said,
picking at a bit of bronze, a wedding present, I think. Then she came
over to where I was sitting and put a hand on my shoulder.

I'd have got to my feet if I hadn't been afraid to face her.

"Percy----"
she began, and I felt the fingers on my shoulder quiver. I don't think
the Apaches handed out anything much worse in the torture line than
the quiver of a woman's ringers upon your shoulder, when you know that
those fingers aren't quivering on your account. Maybe that occurred to her,
for a second later she took her hand away. "You once said something
foolish to me, Percy," she said.

I nodded my head, my eyes upon an edge of the Royal Bokhara.

"It was in a canoe, wasn't it?"
I replied. "There was a moon, of course, and the paddle blades went
drip, drip."

"You meant what you said then, didn't you?"

My gaze was wavering from the rug by now. Little wonder, was it? "I
meant it all right," I got out after a while.

"Do you want to hear me say my little
speech over again?" Was it possible that, after all, Natica Drayton
had really decided to toss Jack over, and take on a fag, warranted kind
and gentle, able to be driven by any lady?

But I forgot that foolish notion pretty
nearly right off.

"There is a husband," she went on, as if taking account of stock.

"There always is," I rejoined.

"Some of
'em are good and the others are bad." I chuckled despite me, as I put
in my mean little hack.

"I mean
the Hartopp's husband," she explained.

"There is," I said.

"'Boiler-plate' Hartopp. His given name is James, and he
prize-fights fair to middling." All this wasn't quite good billiards,
but we'd begun wrong that night, and we might as well keep it up,
thought I.

Natica Drayton was tapping her foot upon the fender. "H'm," she mused.
"Some of those horrid names sound interesting." Then she turned to
me abruptly.

"I think, perhaps, you ought to go now," she suggested.

"I
think so, too," I agreed, rising very hastily, and taking my leave.

"Have
you Friday evening disengaged?" She flung this after me before I had got
to the hall.

"Yes," said I, all unthinking.

"Then we'll do it Friday," she said.

"We'll do what?" I asked, coming back to her. For once I felt rebellious,
and showed it, whereat she smiled.

"Supper after the theater at Cherry's."

"Oh, well, I don't mind that," I volunteered.

"With 'Boiler-plate' Hartopp," she added.

The searchlight dawned upon me. It swung around the room once or twice,
and that was enough. I knew in the flood of sudden illumination that
the girl had planned this thing in advance, with the daring of despair--and
a wife's despair, a very young wife's despair, is a more desperate
thing than the anger of any other woman. Natica had planned it all
in advance; had figured it, and the chances of it. And in the balance
she had confidently thrown the asset of my assisting her.

The right
sort of a man, I suppose, would have become enraged because of her
taking things for granted. But I--I had been chained to her chariot
too long a time to experience the mild sensation of resentment.

Natica
wished to face her husband in a crowded restaurant after the play.
More than that, she wished to face him in company with a man not of
her sort, even as he--Drayton--was escorting a woman whose lane of
living did not rightly cross his. The coincidence of Natica's means-to-an-end
being the Hartopp's husband, was simply a gift of fate; an opportunity
of administering poetic justice, which could not be denied. Had the
Hartopp not possessed a convenient husband, Natica would have arranged
for another companion. But even she had not dared to plan her coup
alone, with her chosen instrument of wifely retaliation. Through it
all, she had confidently counted on me, a discreet background, a pliant
puppet.

She could not know what Drayton might do, after they had
eyed one another from different tables. She did not much care. But
she would at least have the painful joy of the Brahmin woman's hope,
who trusts by some fresh incantation to secure a blessing, formerly
vouchsafed her by the gods, but which now old-time petitions fail
to renew. It seemed cold-blooded, the entire arrangement, and yet
I knew it was not. She was far braver than I could have been, even
to win her caring. But I understood.  Later she would know; the one magic word of the desert lands: water.  For San Juan,
standing midway between the railroad and the more tempting lands beyond the mountains, had
found birth because here was a mud-hole for cradle; down under the sand were fortuitous layers
of impervious clay cupping to hold much sweet water.

The slow tolling of a bell came billowing out through the silence.  The girl sat up.  It was
the Captain.  Never, it seemed to her, had she heard anything so mournful.  Ignacio had informed
himself concerning all details and had returned to the garden at the Mission.  The man was
dead, then.  There could be no doubt as one listened to the measured sorrowing of the big bell.

She got to her feet and, walking swiftly, moved on, still farther from San Juan.  The act was
without premeditation; her whole being was insistent upon it.  She wondered if it was the sheepman
from Las Palmas; if he had, perhaps, a wife and children.  Then she stopped suddenly; a new
thought had come to her.  Strange, inexplicable even, it had not suggested itself before. 
She wondered who the other man was, the man who had done the killing.  And what had happened
to him? Had he fled?  Had other men grappled with him, disarmed him, made of him a prisoner
to answer for what he had done?  What had been his motive, what passion had actuated him Surely
not just the greed for gold which the bell-ringer had suggested!  What sort of creature was
he who, in cold, calculating blood could murder a man for a handful of money?

There was nothing to answer unless she could catch the thought of Ignacio Chavez in the ringing
of his bell.  She moved on again, hurrying.

Following the arroyo, she had come to the first of the little, smooth hills, the lomas as the
men on the stage had named them.  Through them the dry watercourse wriggled, carrying its green
pennons along its marge.  She went up gentle slopes mantled with bleached grass which directly
under her eyes was white in the glare of the sun.  But the sun was very low now, very fierce
and red, an angry god going down in temporary defeat, but defiant to the last, filled with
threat for to-morrow; at a little distance he tinged the world with his own fiery hue.  The
far western uplands cut the great disk squarely in two; down slipped the half wafer until it
seemed that just a bright signal-fire was kindled upon the ridge.  And as that faded from her
eyes the slow sobbing of the swinging bell was like a wail for the death of the day.

She had removed her hat, fancying that already the earth was throwing off its heat, that a
little coolness and freshness was coming down to meet her from the mountains.  She turned her
eyes toward them and it was then, just after the sunset, that she saw a man riding toward her.
He was still far off when she first glimpsed him, just cresting one of the higher hills, so
that for him the sun had not yet set.  For she caught the glint of light flaming back from
the silver chasings of his bridle and from the barrel of the gun across the hollow of his left
arm.  She did not believe that he had seen her in the shadow of the cottonwoods.

If she went on she must meet him presently.  She glanced back over her shoulder, noting how
far she had come from the town.  It was very still again; the bell had ceased its complaint;
the hoofs of the approaching horse seemed shod with felt, falling upon felt.  She swung about
and walked back toward San Juan.

A little later she heard the man's voice, calling.  Clearly to her, since there was no one
else.  Why should he call to her?  She gave no sign of having heard, but walked on a trifle
faster.  She sensed that he was galloping down upon her; still in the loose sand the hoof-beats
were muffled.  Then when he called a second time she stopped and turned and waited.

A splendid big fellow he was, she noted as he came on, riding a splendid big horse.  Man and
beast seemed to belong to the desert; had it not been for the glint of the sun she realized
now, she probably would not have distinguished their distant forms from the land across which
they had moved.  The horse was a darkish, dull gray; the man, boots, corduroy breeches, soft
shirt, and hat, was garbed in gray or so covered with the dust of travel as to seem so.

"What in the world are you doing way out here?" he called to her.  And then having come closer
he reined in his horse, stared at her a moment in surprised wonderment, swept off his hat and
said, a shade awkwardly: "I beg pardon.  I thought you were some one else."

For her wide hat was again drooping about her face, and he had had just the form of her and
the white skirt and waist to judge by.

"It is all right," she said lightly.  "I imagined that you had made a mistake."

It was something of a victory over herself to have succeeded in speaking thus carelessly. 
For there had been the impulse, a temptation almost, just to stare back at the man as he had
stared at her and in silence.  Not only was the type physically magnificent; to her it was,
like everything about her, new.  And that which had held her at first was his eyes.  For it
is not the part of youth to be stern-eyed; and while this man could not be more than midway
between twenty and thirty, his eyes had already acquired the trick of being hard, steely, suggesting
relentlessness, stern and quick.  Tall, lean-bodied, with big calloused hands, as brown as
an Indian, hair and eyes were uncompromisingly black.  He belonged to the southwestern wastes.

These things she noted, and that his face was drawn and weary, that about his left hand was
tied a handkerchief, hinting at a minor cut, that his horse looked as travel-worn as himself.

"One doesn't see strangers often around San Juan," he explained.  "As for a girl . . .  Well,
I never made a mistake like this before.  I'll have to look out."  The muscles of the tired
face softened a little, into his eyes came a quick light that was good to see, for an instant
masking their habitual sternness.  "If you'll excuse me again, and if you don't know a whole
lot about this country . . ."  He paused to measure her sweepingly, seemed satisfied, and concluded:
"I wouldn't go out all alone like this; especially after sundown.  We're a rather tough lot,
you know.  Good-by."

He lifted his hat again, loosened his horse's reins, and passed by her. Just as she had expected,
just as she had desired.  And yet, with his dusty back turned upon her, she experienced a sudden
return of her loneliness.  Would she ever look into the eyes of a friend again? Could she ever
actually accomplish what she had set out to accomplish; make San Juan a home?

Her eyes followed him, frankly admiring now; so she might have looked at any other of nature's
triumphant creations.  Then, before he had gone a score of yards, she saw how a little tightening
of his horse's reins had brought the big brute down from a swinging gallop to a dead standstill.
The bell was tolling again.

Again he was calling to her, again, swinging about, he had ridden to her side.  Now his voice
like his eyes, was ominously stern.

"Who is it?" he demanded.

"I don't know," she told him, marvelling at the look on his face.  His emotion was purely one
of anger, mounting anger that a man was dead? "The man who rings the bells told me that he
thought it must be a sheepman from Las Palmas.  He went to see. . . .  I didn't wait. . . ."

Nor did this man wait now.  Again he had wheeled; now he was racing along the arroyo, urging
a tired horse that he might lose no unnecessary handful of moments.  And as he went she heard
him curse savagely under his breath and knew that he had forgotten her in the thoughts which
had been released by the dull booming of a bell.

CHAPTER III

A MAN'S BOOTS

In the bar at the Casa Blanca, a long, wide room, low-ceilinged and with cool, sprinkled floor,
a score of men had congregated.  For the most part they were silent, content to look at the
signs left by the recent shooting and to have what scraps of explanation were vouchsafed them.
And these were meagre enough.  The man who had done the shooting was sullen and self-contained.
The dead man . . . it was the sheepman from Las Palmas . . . lay in an adjoining card-room,
stark under the blanket which the large hands of Jim Galloway had drawn over him.

When the clatter of hoofs rang out in the street a couple of men went to the door.  Coming
back, "It is the sheriff," they said.

Roderick Norton, entering swiftly, his spurs dragging and jangling, swept the faces in the
room with eyes which had in them none of that human glint of good-will which the girl at the
arroyo had glimpsed in them.  Again they were steely, angry, bespeaking both threat and suspicion.

"Who is it this time?" he demanded sharply.

"Bisbee, from Las Palmas," they told him.

"Who did it?" came the quick question.  And then, before an answer could come, his voice ringing
with the anger in it: "Antone or Kid Rickard?  Which one?"

He had shifted his rifle so that it was caught up under his left arm. His right hand, frank
and unhidden, rested upon the butt of the heavy-caliber revolver sagging from his belt.  Standing
just within the room, he had stepped to one side of the doorway so that the wall was at his back.

"It was the Kid," some one answered, and was continuing, "He says it was self-defense . . ."
when Norton cut in bluntly:

"Was Galloway here when it happened?"

"Yes."

"Where's Galloway now?"

It was noteworthy that he asked for Jim Galloway rather than for Kid Rickard.

"In there," they told him, indicating a second card-room adjoining that in which the Las Palmas
sheepman lay.  Rod Norton, again glancing sharply across the faces confronting him, went to
the closed door and set his hand to the knob.  But Jim Galloway, having desired privacy just
now, had locked the door.  Norton struck it sharply, commanding:

"Open up, Galloway.  It's Norton."

There came the low mutter of a voice hasty and with the quality of stern exhortation, the snap
of the lock, and the door was jerked open. Norton's eyes, probing into every square foot of
the chamber, took stock of Jim Galloway, and beyond him of Kid Rickard, slouching forward in
a chair and rolling a cigarette.

"Hello, Norton," said Galloway tonelessly.  "Glad you showed up. There's been trouble."

A heavy man above the waist-line, thick-shouldered, with large head and bull throat, his muscular
torso tapered down to clean-lined hips, his legs of no greater girth than those of the lean-bodied
man confronting him, his feet small in glove-fitting boots.  His eyes, prominent and full and
a clear brown, were a shade too innocent.  Chin, jaw, and mouth, the latter full-lipped, were
those of strength, smashing power, and a natural cruelty.  He was the one man to be found in
San Juan who was dressed as the rather fastidiously inclined business men dress in the cities.

"Another man down, Galloway," said Norton with an ominous sternness. "And in your place. .
.  How long do you think that you can keep out from under?"

His meaning was plain enough; the men behind him in the barroom listened in attitudes which,
varying in other matters, were alike in their tenseness.  Galloway, however, staring stonily
with eyes not unlike polished agate, so cold and steady were they, gave no sign of taking offense.

"You and I never were friends, Rod Norton," he said, unmoved.  "Still that's no reason you
should jump me for trouble.  Answering your question, I expect to keep out from under just
as long as two things remain as they are: first, as long as I play the game square and in the
open, next, as long as an overgrown boy holds down the job of sheriff in San Juan."

In Norton's eyes was blazing hatred, in Galloway's mere steady, unwinking boldness.

"You saw the killing?" the sheriff asked curtly.

"Yes," said Galloway.

"The Kid there did it?"

For the first time the man slouching forward in the chair lifted his head.  Had a stranger
looked in at that moment, curious to see him who had just committed homicide . . . or murder
. . . he must have experienced a positive shock.  Sullen-eyed, sullen-lipped, the man-killer
could not yet have seen the last of his teens.  A thin wisp of straw-colored hair across a
low, atavistic forehead, unhealthy, yellowish skin, with pale, lack-lustre, faded blue eyes,
he looked evil and vicious and cruel.  One looking from him to Jim Galloway would have suspected
that one could be as inhuman as the other, but with the difference that that which was but
means to an end with Galloway would be end in itself to Kid Rickard.  Something of the primal
savage shone in the pale fires of his eyes.

"Yes," retorted the Kid, his surly voice little better than a snarl. "I got him and be damned
to him!"

"Bad luck cursing a dead man, Rickard," said Norton coldly.  "What did you kill him for?"

Kid Rickard's tongue ran back and forth between his colorless lips before he replied.

"He tried to get me first," he said defiantly.

"Who saw the shooting?"

"Jim Galloway.  And Antone."

Rod Norton grunted his disgust with the situation.

"Give me your gun," he commanded tersely.

The Kid frowned.  Galloway cleared his throat.  Rickard's eyes went to him swiftly.  Then he
got to his feet, jerked a thirty-eight-caliber revolver from the hip pocket of his overalls
and held it out, surrendering it reluctantly.  Norton "broke" it, ejecting the cartridges into
his palm.  Not an empty shell among them; the Kid had slipped in a fresh shell for every exploded
one.

"How many times did you shoot?"

"I don't know.  Two or three, I guess. . . .  Damn it, do you imagine a man counts 'em?"

"What were you and Galloway doing alone in here with the door locked?"

Galloway cut in sharply:

"I didn't want any more trouble; I was afraid somebody . . ."

"Shut up, will you?" cried the sheriff fiercely.  "I'll give you all the chance you want to
talk pretty soon.  Answer me, Rickard."

"I told him to lock me up somewhere until you or Tom Cutter come," said the Kid slowly.  "I
was afraid somebody might jump me for what I done. I didn't want no more trouble."

Norton turned briefly to the crowded room behind him.

"Anybody know where Cutter is?" he asked.

It appeared that every one knew.  Tom Cutter, Rod Norton's deputy, had gone in the early morning
to Mesa Verde, and would probably return in the cool of the evening.  Frowning, Norton made
the best of the situation, and to gain his purpose called four men out of the crowd.

"I want you boys to do me a favor," he said.

"Antone, come here."

The short, squat half-breed standing behind the bar lifted his heavy black brows, demanding:

"Y porqué?  What am I to do?"

"As you are told," Norton snapped at him.  "Benny, you and Dick walk down the street with Antone;
you other boys walk down the other way with Rickard.  If they haven't had all the chance to
talk together already that they want, don't give them any more opportunity.  Step up, Rickard."

The Kid sulked, but under the look the sheriff turned on him came forward and went out, his
whole attitude remaining one of defiance. Antone, his swart face as expressionless as a piece
of mahogany, hesitated, glanced at Galloway, shrugged, and did as Rickard had done, going out
between his two guards.  The men remaining in the barroom were watching their sheriff expectantly.
He swung about upon Galloway.

"Now," he said quickly, "who fired the first shot.  Galloway?"

Galloway smiled, went to his bar, poured himself a glass of whiskey, and standing there, the
glass twisting slowly in his fingers, stared back innocently at his interrogator.

"Trying the case already, Judge Norton?" he inquired equably.

"Will you answer?" Norton said coolly.

"Sure."  Galloway kept his look steady upon the sheriff's, and into the innocence of his eyes
there came a veiled insolence.  "Bisbee shot first."

"Where was he standing?"

Galloway pointed.

"Right there."  The spot indicated was about three or four feet from where Norton stood, near
the second card-room door.

"Where was the Kid?"

"Over there."  Again Galloway pointed.  "Clean across the room, where the chair is tumbled
over against the table."

"How many times did Bisbee shoot?"

Galloway seemed to be trying to remember.  He drank his whiskey slowly, reached over the bar
for a cigar, and answered:

"Twice or three times."

"How many times did Rickard shoot?"

"I'm not sure.  I'd say about the same; two or three times."

"Where was Antone standing?"

"Behind the bar; down at the far end, nearest the door."

"Where were you?"

"Leaning against the bar, talking to Antone."

"What were you talking about?"

This question came quicker, sharper than the others, as though calculated to startle Galloway
into a quick answer.  But the proprietor of the Casa Blanca was lighting his cigar and took
his time.  When he looked up, his eyes told Norton that he had understood any danger which
might lie under a question so simple in the seeming.  His eyes were smiling contemptuously,
but there was a faint flush in his cheeks.

"I don't remember," he replied at last.  "Some trifle.  The shooting, coming suddenly that
way . . .

"What started the ruction?"

"Bisbee had been drinking a little.  He seemed to be in the devil's own temper.  He had asked
the Kid to have a drink with him, and Rickard refused.  He had his drink alone and then invited
the Kid again. Rickard told him to go to hell.  Bisbee started to walk across the room as though
he was going to the card-room.  Then he grabbed his gun and whirled and started shooting."

"Missing every time, of course?"

Galloway nodded.

"You'll remember I said he was carrying enough of a load to make his aim bad."

Norton asked half a dozen further questions and then said abruptly:

"That's all.  As you go out will you tell the boys to send Antone in?"

Again a hint of color crept slowly, dully, into Galloway's cheeks.

"You're going pretty far, Rod Norton," he said tonelessly.

"You're damned right I am!" cried Norton ringingly.  "And I am going a lot further, Jim Galloway,
before I get through, and you can bet all of your blue chips on it.  I want Antone in here
and I want you outside! Do I get what I want or not?"

Galloway stood motionless, his cigar clamped tight in his big square teeth.  Then he shrugged
and went to the door.

"If I am standing a good deal off of you," he muttered, hanging on his heel just before he
passed out, "it's because I am as strong as any man in the county to see the law brought into
San Juan.  And"--for the first time yielding outwardly to a display of the emotion riding him,
he spat out venomously and tauntingly--"and we'd have had the law here long ago had we had
a couple of men in the boots of the Nortons, father and son!"

Rod Norton's face went a flaming red with anger, his hand grew white upon the butt of the gun
at his side.

"Some day, Jim Galloway," he said steadily, "I'll get you just as sure as you got Billy Norton!"

Galloway laughed and went out.

To Antone, Norton put the identical questions he had asked of Galloway, receiving virtually
the same replies.  Seeking the one opportunity suggesting itself into tricking the bartender,
he asked at the end:

"Just before the shooting, when you and Galloway were talking and he told you that Bisbee was
looking for trouble, why weren't you ready to grab him when he went for his gun?"

Antone was giving his replies as guardedly as Galloway had done.  He took his time now.

"Because," he began finally, "I do not belief when Señor Galloway speak that . . ."

His eyes had been roving from Norton's, going here and there about the room.  Suddenly a startled
look came into them and he snapped his mouth shut.

"Go on," prompted the sheriff.

"I don't remember," grunted Antone.  "I forget what Señor Galloway say, what I say.  Bisbee
say: 'Have a drink.'  The Kid say: 'Go to hell.' Bisbee shoot, one, two, three, like that.
I forget what we talk about."

Norton turned slowly and looked whither Antone had been looking when he cut his own words off
so sharply.  The man upon whom his eyes rested longest was a creased-faced Mexican, Vidal Nuñez,
who now stood, head down, making a cigarette.

"That's all, Antone," Norton said.  "Send the Kid in."

The Kid came, still sullen but swaggering a little, his hat cocked jauntily to one side, the
yellow wisp of hair in his faded eyes.  And he in turn questioned, gave such answers as the
two had given before him.

Now for the first time the sheriff, stepping across the room, looked for such evidence as flying
lead might have left for him.  In the wall just behind the spot where Bisbee had stood were
two bullet holes. Going to the far end of the room where the chair leaned against the table,
he found that a pane of glass in the window opening upon the street had been broken.  There
were no bullet marks upon wall or woodwork.

"Bisbee shot two or three times, did he?" he cried, wheeling on the Kid.  "And missed every
time?  And all the bullets went through the one hole in the window, I suppose?"

The Kid shrugged insolently.

"I didn't watch 'em," he returned briefly.

Galloway and Antone were allowed to come again into the room, and of Galloway, quite as though
no hot word had passed between them, Norton asked quietly:

"Bisbee had a lot of money on him.  What happened to it?"

"In there."  Galloway nodded toward the card-room whose door had remained closed.  "In his pocket."

A few of the morbid followed as the sheriff went into the little room. Already most of the
men had seen and had no further curiosity.  Norton drew the blanket away, noted the wounds,
three of them, two at the base of the throat and one just above the left eye.  Then, going
through the sheepman's pockets, he brought out a handful of coins.  A few gold, most of them
silver dollars and half-dollars, in all a little over fifty dollars.

The dead man lay across two tables drawn together, his booted feet sticking out stolidly beyond
the bed still too short to accommodate his length of body.  Norton's eyes rested on the man's
boots longer than upon the cold face.  Then, stepping back to the door so that all in the barroom
might catch the significance of his words, he said sharply:

"How many men of you know where Bisbee always carried his money when he was on his way to bank?"

"In his boots!" answered two voices together.

"Come this way, boys.  Take a look at his boots, will you?"

And as they crowded about the table, sensing some new development, Galloway pushing well to
the fore, Norton's vibrant voice rang out:

"It was a clean job getting him, and a clean job telling the story of how it happened.  But
there wasn't overmuch time and in the rush. . . . Tell me, Jim Galloway, how does it happen
that the right boot is on the left foot?"

CHAPTER IV

AT THE BANKER'S HOME

Rod Norton made no arrest.  Leaving the card-room abruptly he signalled to Julius Struve, the
hotel keeper, to follow him.  In the morning Struve, in his official capacity as coroner, would
demand a verdict. Having long been in strong sympathy with the sheriff he was to be looked
to now for a frank prediction of the inquest's result.  And, very thoughtful about it all,
he gravely agreed with Norton; the coroner's jury, taking the evidence offered by Jim Galloway,
Kid Rickard, and Antone, would bring in a verdict of justifiable homicide.

"Later on we'll get 'em, Roddy . . . mebbe," he said finally.  "But not now.  If you pulled
the Kid it would just be running up the county expense all for nothing."

The sheriff left him in silence and leading his horse went the few steps to the hotel.  Ignacio
Chavez appearing opportunely Norton gave his animal into the breed's custody; Ignacio, accustomed
to doing odd jobs for el Señor Roderico Nortone, and to the occasional half dollars resulting
from such transactions, led the big gray away while the sheriff entered the hotel.  It had
been a day of hard riding and scanty meals, and he was hungry.

Bright and new and conspicuous, a gold-lettered sign at Struve's doorway caught his eye and
caused him to remember the wounded left hand which had been paining him considerably through
the long hot day.  The sign bore the name of Dr. V. D. Page with the words Physician and Surgeon;
in blue pencilled letters upon the practitioner's card, affixed to the brass chain suspending
the sign, were the further words: "Room 5, Struve's Hotel."

The sheriff went to Room 5.  It was at the front of the building, upon the ground floor.  The
door opened almost immediately when he rapped. Confronting him was the girl he had encountered
at the arroyo.  He lifted his hat, looked beyond her, and said simply:

"I was looking for Dr. Page.  Is he in now?"

"Yes," she told him gravely.  "Come in, please."

He stepped across the threshold, his eyes trained to quick observation of details taking in
at a glance all there was to be seen.  The room showed all signs of a fresh unpacking, the
one table and two chairs piled high with odds and ends.  For the most part the miscellany consisted
of big, fat books, bundles of towels and fresh white napkins, rubber-stoppered bottles of varicolored
contents, and black leather cases, no doubt containing a surgeon's instruments.  Through an
open door giving entrance to the adjoining room he noted further signs of unpacking with a
marked difference in the character of the litter; the girl stepped quickly to this door, shutting
out the vision of a helter-skelter of feminine apparel.

"It is your hand?" she asked, as in most thoroughly matter of fact fashion she put out her
own for it.  "Let me see it."

But for a moment he bestowed upon her merely a slow look of question.

"You don't mean that you are Dr. Page?" he asked.  Then, believing that he understood: "You're
the nurse?"

"Is a physician's life in San Juan likely to be so filled with his duties that he must bring
a nurse with him?" she countered.  "Yes, I am Dr. Page."

He noted that she was as defiant about the matter as the Kid had been about the killing of
Bisbee of Las Palmas; plainly she had foreseen that the type of man-animal inhabiting this
out-of-the-way corner of the world would be likely to wonder at her hardihood and, perhaps,
to jeer.

"I came to-day," she explained in the same matter-of-fact way. "Consequently you will pardon
the looks of things.  But I am one of the kind that believes in hanging out a shingle first,
getting details arranged next.  Now may I see the hand?"

"It's hardly anything."  He lifted it now for her inspection.  "Just a slight cut, you know.
But it's showing signs of infection.  A little antiseptic . . ."

She took his fingers into hers and bent over the wound.  He noted two things, now: what strong
hands she had, shapely, with sensitive fingers ignorant of rings; how richly alive and warmly
colored her hair was, full of little waves and curls.

She had nothing to say while she treated him.  Over an alcohol lamp she heated some water;
in a bowl, brought from the adjoining room, she cleansed the hand thoroughly.  Then the application
of the final antiseptic, a bit of absorbent cotton, a winding of surgeon's tape about a bit
of gauze, and the thing was done.  Only at the end did she say:

"It's a peculiar cut . . . not a knife cut, is it?"

"No," he answered humorously.  "Did it on a piece of lead. . . .  How much is it, Doctor?"

"Two dollars," she told him, busied with the drying of her own hands. "Better let me look at
it again in the morning if it pains you."

He laid two silver dollars in her palm, hesitated a moment and then went out.

"She's got the nerve," was his thoughtful estimate as he went to his corner table in the dining-room.
"But I don't believe she is going to last long in San Juan. . . .  Funny she should come to
a place like this, anyhow. . . .  Wonder what the V stands for?"

At any rate the hand had been skilfully treated and bandaged; he nodded at it approvingly.
Then, with his meal set before him, he divided his thoughts pretty evenly between the girl
and the recent shooting at the Casa Blanca.  The sense was strong upon him as it had been many
a time that before very long either Rod Norton or Jim Galloway would lie as the sheepman from
Las Palmas was lying, while the other might watch his sunrises and sunsets with a strange,
new emotion of security.

The sheriff, who had not eaten for twelve hours, was beginning his meal when the newest stranger
in San Juan came into the dining-room.  She had arranged her lustrous copper-brown hair becomingly,
and looked fresh and cool and pretty.  Norton approved of her with his keen eyes while he watched
her go to her place at a table across the room.  As she sat down, giving no sign of having
noted him, her back toward him, he continued to observe and to admire her slender, perfect
figure and the strong, sensitive hands busied with her napkin.

A slovenly, half-grown Indian girl, Anita, the cook's daughter, came in from the kitchen, directed
the slumbrous eyes of her race upon the sheriff who fitted well in a woman's eye, and went
to serve the single other late diner.  Norton caught a fleeting view of V. D. Page's throat
and cheek as she turned slightly in speaking with Anita.  As the serving-maid withdrew Norton
rose to his feet and crossed the room to the far table.

"May I bring my things over and eat with you?" he asked when he stood looking down on her and
she had lifted her eyes curiously to his.  "If you've come to stay you can't go on forever
not knowing anybody here, you know.  Since you've got to know us sooner or later why not begin
to get acquainted?  Here and now and with me?  I'm Roderick Norton."

One must have had far less discernment than she not to have felt instinctively that the great
bulk of human conventions would shrivel and vanish before they could come this far across the
desert lands. Besides, the man standing over her looked straight and honestly into her eyes
and for a little she glimpsed again the youth of him veiled by the sternness his life had set
into his soul and upon his face.

"It is kind of you to have pity upon me in my isolation," she answered lightly and without
hesitation.  "And, to tell the truth, I never was so terribly lonesome in all my life."

He made two trips back and forth to bring his plate and coffee cup and auxiliary sauce dishes
and plated silver, while she wondered idly that he did not instruct the Indian girl to perform
the service for him. Even then she half formulated the thought that it was much more natural
for this man to do for himself what he wanted than for him to sit down to be waited upon. 
A small matter, no doubt; but then mountains are made up of small particles and character of
just such small characteristics as this.

During the half hour which they spent together over their meal they got to know each other
rather better than chance acquaintances are likely to do in so brief a time.  For from the
moment of Norton's coming to her table the bars were down between them.  She was plainly eager
to supplement Ignacio Chavez's information of "la gente" of San Juan and its surrounding country,
evincing a curiosity which he readily understood to be based upon the necessities of her profession.
In return for all that he told her she sketchily spoke of her own plans, very vague plans,
to be sure, she admitted with one of her quick, gay smiles.  She had come prepared to accept
what she found, she was playing no game of hide-and-seek with her destiny, but had wandered
thus far from the former limits of her existence to meet life half way, hoping to do good for
others, a little imperiously determined to achieve her own measure of success and happiness.

From the beginning each was ready, perhaps more than ready, to like the other.  Her eyes, whether
they smiled or grew suddenly grave, pleased him; always were they fearless.  He sensed that
beneath the external soft beauty of a very lovely young woman there was a spirit of hardihood
in every sense worthy of the success which she had planned bare-handed to make for herself,
and in the man's estimation no quality stood higher than a superb independence.  On her part,
there was first a definite surprise, then a glow of satisfaction that in this virile arm of
the law there was nothing of the blusterer.  She set him down as a quiet gentleman first, as
a sheriff next.  She enjoyed his low, good-humored laugh and laughed back with him, even while
she experienced again the unaccustomed thrill at the sheer physical bigness of him, the essentially
masculine strength of a hardy son of the southwestern outdoors.  Not once had he referred to
the affair at the Casa Blanca or to his part in it; not a question did she ask him concerning
it.  He told himself that so utterly human, so perfectly feminine a being as she must be burning
with curiosity; she marvelled that he could think, speak of anything else.  When together they
rose from the table they were alike prepared, should circumstance so direct, to be friends.

She was going now to call upon the Engles.  She had told him that she had a letter to Mrs.
Engle from a common friend in Richmond.

"I don't want to appear to be riding too hard on your trail," he smiled at her.  "But I was
planning dropping in on the Engles myself this evening.  They're friends of mine, you know."

She laughed, and as they left the hotel, propounded a riddle for him to answer: Should Mr.
Norton introduce her to Mrs. Engle so that she might present her letter, or, after the letter
was presented, should Mrs. Engle introduce her to Mr. Norton?

It did not suggest itself to her until they had passed from the street, through the cottonwoods
and into the splendid living-room of the Engle home, that her escort was not dressed as she
had imagined all civilized mankind dressed for a call.  Walking through the primitive town
his boots and soft shirt and travel-soiled hat had been in too perfect keeping with the environment
for her to be more than pleasurably conscious of them.

At the Engles', however, his garb struck her for a moment of the first shock of contrast, as
almost grotesquely out of place.

At the broad front door Norton had rapped.  The desultory striking of a piano's keys ceased
abruptly, a girl's voice crying eagerly: "It's Roddy!" hinted at the identity of the listless
player, a door flung open flooded the broad entrance hall with light.  And then the outer door
framed banker Engle's daughter, a mere girl in her middle teens, fair-haired, fair-skinned,
fluffy-skirted, her eyes bright with expectation, her two hands held out offering themselves
in doubled greetings.  But, having seen the unexpected guest at the sheriff's side, the bright-haired
girl paused for a brief moment of uncertainty upon the threshold, her hands falling to her sides.

"Hello, Florrie," Norton was saying quietly.  "I have brought a caller for your mother.  Miss
Engle, Miss Page."

"How do you do, Miss Page?" Florrie replied, regaining her poise and giving one of her hands
to each of the callers, the abandon of her first appearance gone in a flash to be replaced
by a vague hint of stiffness.  "Mama will be so glad to see you.  Do come in."

She turned and led the way down the wide, deep hall and into the living-room, a chamber which
boldly defied one to remember that he was still upon the rim of the desert.  In one swift glance
the newcomer to San Juan was offered a picture in which the tall, carelessly clad form of the
sheriff became incongruous; she wondered that he remained at his ease as he so obviously did.
Yonder was a grand piano, a silver chased vase upon a wall bracket over it holding three long-stemmed,
red roses; a heavy, massive-topped table strewn comfortably and invitingly with books and magazines;
an exquisite rug and one painting upon the far wall, an original seascape suggestive of Waugh
at his best; excellent leather-upholstered chairs luxuriously inviting, and at once homelike
and rich.  Just rising from one of these chairs drawn up to the table reading-lamp, a book
still in his hand, was Mr. Engle, while Mrs. Engle, as fair as her daughter, just beginning
to grow stout in lavendar, came forward smilingly.

"Back again, Roddy?"  She gave him a plump hand, patted his lean brown fingers after her motherly
fashion, and came to where the girl had stopped just within the door.

"Virginia Page, aren't you?  As if any one in the world would have to tell me who you were!
You are your mother all over, child; did you know it?  Oh, kiss me, kiss me, my dear, for your
mother's sake, and save your hand-shakes for strangers."

Virginia, taken utterly by surprise as Mrs. Engle's arms closed warmly about her, grew rosy
with pleasure; the dreary loneliness of a long day was gone with a kiss and a hug.

"I didn't know . . . ." she began haltingly, only to be cut short by Mrs. Engle crying to her
husband:

"It's Virginia Page, John.  Wouldn't you have known her anywhere?"

John Engle, courteous, urbane, a pleasant-featured man with grave, kindly eyes and a rather
large, firm-lipped mouth nodded to Norton and gave Virginia his hand cordially.

"I must be satisfied with a hand-shake, Miss Page," he said in a deep, pleasant voice, "but
I refuse to be a mere stranger.  We are immensely glad to have you with us. . . .  Mother,
can't you see we have most thoroughly mystified her; swooping down on her like this without
giving her an inkling of how and why we expected her?"

Roderick Norton and Florrie Engle had drawn a little apart; Virginia, with her back to them
during the greeting of Mrs. and Mr. Engle, had no way of knowing whether the withdrawal had
been by mutually spontaneous desire or whether the initiative had been the sheriff's or Miss
Engle's.  Not that it mattered or concerned her in any slightest particular.

In her hand was the note of introduction she had brought from Mrs. Seth Morgan; evidently both
its services and those of Roderick Norton might be dispensed with in the matter of her being
presented.

"Of course," Mrs. Engle was saying.  An arm about the girl's slim waist, she drew her to a
big leather couch.  "Marian never does things by halves, my dear; you know that, don't you?
That's a letter she gave you for me?  Well, she wrote me another, so I know all about you.
And, if you are willing to accept the relationship with out-of-the-world folks, we're sort
of cousins!"

Virginia Page flushed vividly.  She had known all along that her mother had been a distant
relative of Mrs. Engle, but she had had no desire, no thought of employing that very faint
tie as an argument for being accepted by the banker's family.  She did not care to come here
like the proverbial poor relation.

"You are very kind," she said quietly, her lips smiling while her eyes were grave.  "But I
don't want you to feel that I have been building on the fact of kinship; I just wanted to be
friends if you liked me, not because you felt it your duty. . . ."

Engle, who had come, dragging his chair after him, to join them, laughed amusedly.

"Answering your question, Mrs. Engle," he chuckled, "I'd certainly know her for Virginia Page!
When we come to know her better maybe she will allow us to call her Cousin Virginia?  In the
meantime, to play safe, I suppose that to us she'd better be just Dr. Page?"

"John is as full of nonsense after banking hours," explained Mrs. Engle, still affectionately
patting Virginia's hand, "as he is crammed with business from nine until four.  Which makes
life with him possible; it's like having two husbands, makes for variety and so saves me from
flirting with other men.  Now, tell us all about yourself."

Virginia, who had been a little stiff-muscled until now, leaned back among the cushions unconscious
of a half sigh of content and of her relaxation.  During the long day San Juan had sought to
frighten, to repel her.  Now it was making ample amends: first the companionable society of
Rod Norton, then this simple, hearty welcome.  She returned the pressure of Mrs. Engle's soft,
warm hands in sheer gratitude.

After that they chatted lightly, Engle gradually withdrawing from the conversation and secretly
watching the girl keenly, studying her play of expression, seeking, according to his habit,
to make his guarded estimate of a new factor in his household.  From Virginia's face his eyes
went swiftly now and then to his daughter's, animated in her tête-à-tête with the sheriff.
Once, when Virginia turned unexpectedly, she caught the hint of a troubled frown in his eyes.

Broad double doors in the west wall of the living-room gave entrance to the patio.  The doors
were open now to the slowly freshening night air, and from where she sat Virginia Page had
a glimpse of a charming court, an orange-tree heavy with fruit and blossom, red and yellow
roses, a sleeping fountain whose still water reflected star-shine and the lamp in its niche
under a grape-vine arbor.  When Norton and Florence Engle strolled out into the inviting patio
Engle, breaking his silence, leaned forward and dominated the conversation.

Virginia had been doing the major part of the talking, answering questions about Mrs. Engle's
girlhood home, telling something of herself.  Now John Engle, reminding his wife that their
guest must be consumed with curiosity about her new environment, sought to interest her in
this and that, in and about San Juan.

"There was a killing this afternoon," he admitted quietly.  "No doubt you know of it and have
been shocked by it, and perhaps on account of it have a little misjudged San Juan.  We are
not all cutthroats here, by any manner of means; I think I might almost say that the rough
element is in the minority.  We are in a state of transition, like all other frontier settlements.
The railroad, though it doesn't come closer than the little tank station where you took the
stage this morning, has touched our lives out here.  A railroad brings civilizing influences;
but the first thing it does is to induct a surging tide of forces contending against law and
order.  Pioneers," and he smiled his slow, grave, tolerant smile, "are as often as not tumultuous-blooded
and self-sufficient, and prone to kick over the established traces. We've got that class to
deal with . . . and that boy, Rod Norton, with his job cut out for him, is getting results.
He's the biggest man right now, not only in the country, but in this end of the state."

Continuing he told her something of the sheriff.  Young Norton, having returned from college
some three years before to live the only life possible to one of his blood, had become manager
of his father's ranch in and beyond the San Juan mountains.  At the time Billy Norton was the
county sheriff and had his hands full.  Rumor said that he had promised himself to "get" a
certain man; Engle admitted that that man was Jim Galloway of the Casa Blanca.  But either
Galloway or a tool of Galloway's or some other man had "gotten" Billy Norton, shooting him
down in his own cabin and from the back, putting a shotgun charge of buckshot into his brain.

It had occurred shortly after Roderick Norton's return, shortly before the expiration of Billy
Norton's term of office.  Rod Norton, putting another man in his place on the ranch, had buried
his father and then had asked of the county his election to the place made empty by his father's
death.  Though he was young, men believed in him.  The election returns gave him his place
by a crushing majority.

"And he has done good work," concluded Engle thoughtfully.  "Because of what he has done, because
he does not make an arrest until he has his evidence and then drives hard to a certain conviction,
he has come to be called Dead-sure Norton and to be respected everywhere, and feared more than
a little.  Until now it has become virtually a two-man fight. Rod Norton against Jim Galloway.
. . ."

"John," interposed Mrs. Engle, "aren't you giving Virginia rather a sombre side of things?"

"Maybe I am," he agreed.  "But this killing of the Las Palmas man in broad daylight has come
pretty close to filling my mind.  Who's going to be next?"  His eyes went swiftly toward the
patio, taking stock of the two figures there.  Then he shrugged, went to the table for a cigar
and returned smiling to inform Virginia of life on the desert and in the valleys beyond the
mountains, of scattering attempts at reclamation and irrigation, of how one made towns of sun-dried
mud, of where the adobe soil itself was found, drifted over with sand in the shade of the cottonwoods.

But Mrs. Engle's sigh, while her husband spoke of black mud and straw, testified that her thoughts
still clung about those events and possibilities which she herself had asked him to avoid;
her eyes wandered to the tall, rudely garbed figure dimly seen in the patio. Virginia, recalling
Jim Galloway as she had seen him on the stage, heavy-bodied, narrow-hipped, masterful alike
in carriage and the look of the prominent eyes, glanced with Mrs. Engle toward Rod Norton.
He was laughing at something passing between him and Florence, and for the moment appeared
utterly boyish.  Were it not for the grim reminder of the forty-five-caliber revolver which
the nature of his sworn duties did not allow of his laying aside even upon a night like this,
it would have been easy to forget that he was all that which the one word sheriff connotes
in a land like that about San Juan.

"Can't get away from it, can we?"  Engle having caught the look in the two women's eyes, broke
off abruptly in what he was saying, and now sat studying his cigar with frowning eyes.  "Man
against man, and the whole county knows it, one employing whatever criminal's tools slip into
his hands, the other fighting fair and in the open.  Man against man and in a death grapple
just because they are the men they are, with one backed up by a hang-dog crowd like Kid Rickard
and Antone, and the other playing virtually a lone hand.  What's the end going to be?"

Virginia thought of Ignacio Chavez.  He, had he been here, would have answered:

"In the end there will be the ringing of the bells for a man dead.  You will see!  Which one?
Quien sabe!  The bells will ring."

CHAPTER V

IN THE DARKNESS OF THE PATIO

Through the silence of the outer night, as though actually Ignacio Chavez were prophesying,
came billowing the slow beating of the deep mourning bell.  Mrs. Engle sighed; Engle frowned;
Virginia sat rigid, at once disturbed and oppressed.

"How can you stand that terrible bell?" she cried softly.  "I should think that it would drive
you mad!  How long does he ring it?"

"Once every hour until midnight," answered Engle, his face once more placid as he withdrew
his look from the patio and transferred it to his cigar.  And then, with a half smile: "There
are many San Juans; there is, in all the wide world, but one San Juan of the Bells.  You would
not take our distinction from us?  Now that you are to become of San Juan you must, like the
rest of us, take a pride in San Juan's bells. Which you will do soon or late; perhaps just
as soon as you come to know something of their separate and collective histories."

"Tell her, John," suggested Mrs. Engle, again obviously anxious to dispel the more lugubrious
and tragic atmospheres of the evening with any chance talk which might offer itself.

"Let her wait until Ignacio can tell her," laughed Engle.  "No one else can tell it so well,
and certainly no one else has an equal pride or even an equal right in the matter."

But, though he refused to take up the colorful theme of the biographies of the Captain, the
Dancer, Lolita, and the rest, John Engle began to speak lightly upon an associated topic, first
asking the girl if she knew with what ceremony the old Western bells had been cast; when she
shook her head and while the slow throbbing beat of the Captain still insisted through the
night's silences, he explained that doubtless all six of Ignacio Chavez's bells had taken form
under the calm gaze of high priests of old Spain.  For legend had it that all six were from
their beginnings destined for the new missions to be scattered broadcast throughout a new land,
to ring out word of God to heathen ears.  Bells meant for such high service were never cast
without grave religious service and sacrifice.  Through the darkness of long-dead centuries
the girl's stimulated fancies followed the man's words; she visualized the great glowing caldrons
in which the fusing metals grew red and an intolerable white; saw men and women draw near,
proud blue-blooded grandees on one hand, and the lowly on the other, with one thought; saw
the maidens and ladies from the courtyards of the King's palace as they removed golden bracelets
and necklaces from white arms and throats, so that the red and yellow gold might go with their
prayers into the molten metals, enriching them, while those whose poverty was great, but whose
devotion was greater, offered what little silver ornaments they could.  Carved silver vases,
golden cups, minted coins and cherished ornaments, all were offered generously and devoutly
until the blazing caldrons had mingled the Queen's girdle-clasps with a bauble from the beggar
girl.

"And in the end," smiled Engle, "there are no bells with the sweet tone of old Mission bells,
or with their soft eloquence."

While he was talking Ignacio Chavez had allowed the dangling rope to slip from his hands so
that the Captain rested quiet in the starshine. Roderick and Florence were coming in through
the wide patio door; Norton was just saying that Florrie had promised to play something for
him when the front door knocker announced another visitor.  Florence made a little disdainful
face as though she guessed who it was; Engle went to the door.

Even Virginia Page in this land of strangers knew who the man was.  For she had seen enough
of him to-day, on the stage across the weary miles of desert, to remember him and to dislike
him.  He was the man whom Galloway and the stage-driver had called "Doc," the sole representative
of the medical fraternity in San Juan until her coming.  She disliked him first vaguely and
with purely feminine instinct; secondly because of an air which he never laid aside of a serene
consciousness of self-superiority.  He had established himself in what he was pleased to consider
a community of nobodies, his inferiors intellectually and culturally.  He was of that type
of man-animal that lends itself to fairly accurate cataloguing at the end of the first five
minutes' acquaintance.  The most striking of the physical attributes about his person as he
entered were his little mustache and neatly trimmed beard and the diamond stick-pin in his
tie.  Remove these articles and it would have been difficult to distinguish him from countless
thousands of other inefficient and opinionated individuals.

Virginia noted that both Mr. and Mrs. Engle shook hands with him if not very cordially at least
with good-humored toleration; that Florence treated him to a stiff little nod; that Roderick
Norton from across the room greeted him coolly.

"Dr. Patten," Engle was saying, "this is our cousin, Virginia Page."

Dr. Patten acknowledged the introduction and sat down, turning to ask "how Florrie was today?"
Virginia smiled, sensing a rebuke to herself in his manner; to-day on the stage she had made
it obvious even to him that if she must speak with a stranger she would vastly prefer the talk
of the stage-driver than that of Dr. Caleb Patten.  When Florence, replying briefly, turned
to the piano Patten addressed Norton.

"What was our good sheriff doing to-day?" he asked banteringly, as though the subject he chose
were the most apt one imaginable for jest. "Another man killed in broad daylight and no one
to answer for it!  Why don't you go get 'em, Roddy?"

Norton stared at him steadily and finally said soberly:

"When a disease has fastened itself upon the body of a community it takes time to work a cure,
Dr. Patten."

"But not much time to let the life out of a man like the chap from Las Palmas!  Why, the man
who did the shooting couldn't have done a nicer job if he'd been a surgeon.  One bullet square
through the carotid artery . . .  That leads from the heart to the head," he explained as though
his listeners were children athirst for knowledge which he and none other could impart.  "The
cerebrum penetrated by a second. . . ."

What other technical elucidation might have followed was lost in a thunderous crashing of the
piano keys as Florence Engle strove to drown the man's utterance and succeeded so well that
for an instant he sat gaping at her.

"I can't stand that man!" Florence said sharply to Norton, and though the words did not travel
across the room, Virginia was surprised that even an individual so completely armored as Caleb
Patten could fail to grasp the girl's meaning.

When Florence had pounded her way through a noisy bit of "jazz," Caleb Patten, with one of
his host's cigars lighted, was leaning a little forward in his chair, alert to seize the first
opportunity of snatching conversation by the throat.

"Kid Rickard admits killing Bisbee," he said to Norton.  "What are you going to do about it?
The first thing I heard when I got in from a professional call a little while ago was that
Rickard was swaggering around town, saying that you wouldn't gather him in because you were
afraid to."

The sheriff's face remained unmoved, though the others looked curiously to him and back to
Patten, who was easy and complacent and vaguely irritating.

"I imagine you haven't seen Jim Galloway since you got in, have you?" Norton returned quietly.

"No," said Patten.  "Why?  What has Galloway got to do with it?"

"Ask him.  He says Rickard killed Bisbee in self-defense."

"Oh," said Patten.  And then, shifting in his chair: "If Galloway says so, I guess you are
right in letting the Kid go."

And, a trifle hastily it struck Virginia, he switched talk into another channel, telling of
the case on which he had been out to-day, enlarging upon its difficulties, with which, it appeared,
he had been eminently fitted to cope.  There was an amused twinkle in John Engle's eyes as
he listened.

"By the way, Patten," the banker observed when there came a pause, "you've got a rival in town.
Had you heard?"

"What do you mean?" asked the physician.

"When I introduced you just now to our Cousin Virginia, I should have told you; she is Dr.
Page, M.D."

Again Patten said "Oh," but this time in a tone which through its plain implication put a sudden
flash into Virginia's eyes.  As he looked toward her there was a half sneer upon the lips which
his scanty growth of beard and mustache failed to hide.  Had he gone on to say, "A lady doctor,
eh?" and laughed, the case would not have been altered.

"It seems so funny for a girl to be a doctor," said Florence, for the first time referring
in any way to Virginia since she had flown to the door, expecting Norton alone.  Even now she
did not look toward her kinswoman.

John Engle replied, speaking crisply.  But just what he said Virginia did not know.  For suddenly
her whole attention was withdrawn from the conversation, fixed and held by something moving
in the patio.  First she had noted a slight change in Rod Norton's eyes, saw them grow keen
and watchful, noted that they had turned toward the door opening into the little court where
the fountain was, where the wall-lamp threw its rays wanly among the shrubs and through the
grape-arbor.  He had seen something move out there; from where she sat she could look the way
he looked and mark how a clump of rose-bushes had been disturbed and now stood motionless again
in the quiet night.

Wondering, she looked again to Norton.  His eyes told nothing now save that they were keen
and watchful.  Whether or not he knew what it was so guardedly stirring in the patio, whether
he, like herself, had merely seen the gently agitated leaves of the bushes, she could not guess.
She started when Engle addressed some trifling remark to her; while she evaded the direct answer
she was fully conscious of the sheriff's eyes steady upon her.  He, no doubt, was wondering
what she had seen.

It was only a moment later when Norton rose and went to Mrs. Engle, telling her briefly that
he had had a day of it, in the saddle since dawn, wishing her good night.  He shook hands with
Engle, nodded to Patten, and coming to Virginia said lightly, but, she thought, with an almost
sternly serious look in his eyes:

"We're all hoping you like San Juan, Miss Page.  And you will, too, if the desert stillness
doesn't get on your nerves.  But then silence isn't such a bad thing after all, is it?  Good
night."

She understood his meaning and, though a thrill of excitement ran through her blood, answered
laughingly:

"Shall a woman learn from the desert?  Have I been such a chatter-box, Mrs. Engle, that I am
to be admonished at the beginning to study to hold my tongue?"

Florence looked at her curiously, turned toward Norton, and then went with him to the door.
For a moment their voices came in a murmur down the hallway; then Norton had gone and Florence
returned slowly to the living-room.

Again Virginia looked out into the patio.  Never a twig stirred now; all was as quiet as the
sleeping fountain, as silent and mystery-filled as the desert itself.  Had Roderick Norton
seen more than she?  Did he know who had been out there?  Was here the beginning of some further
sinister outgrowth of the lawlessness of Kid Rickard? of the animosity of Jim Galloway?  Was
she presently to see Norton himself slipping into the patio from the other side, was she again
to hear the rattle of pistol-shots?  He had asked that she say nothing; she had unhesitatingly
given him her promise.  Had she so unquestioningly done as he had requested because he was
the sheriff who represented the law? or because he was Roderick Norton who stood for fine,
upstanding manhood? . . .  Again she felt Florence Engle's eyes fixed upon her.

"Florence is prepared at the beginning to dislike me," she thought. "Why?  Just because I walked
with him from the hotel?"

In the heat of an argument with Mrs. Engle there came an interruption. The banker's wife was
insisting that Virginia "do the only sensible thing in the world," that she accept a home under
the Engle roof, occupying the room already made ready for her.  Virginia, warmed by the cordial
invitation, while deeply grateful, felt that she had no right to accept.  She had come to San
Juan to make her own way; she had no claim upon the hospitality of her kinswoman, certainly
no such claim as was implied now.  Besides, there was Elmer Page.  Her brother was coming to
join her to-morrow or the next day, and as soon as it could be arranged they would take a house
all by themselves, or if that proved impossible, would have a suite at the hotel.  At the moment
when it seemed that a deadlock had come between Mrs. Engle's eagerness to mother her cousin's
daughter and Virginia's inborn sense of independence, the interruption came.

It arrived in the form of a boy of ten or twelve, a ragged, scantily clothed, swarthy youngster,
rubbing a great toe against a bare leg while from the front door he announced that Ignacio
Chavez was sick, that he had eaten something muy malo, that he had pains and that he prayed
that the doctor cure him.

Patten grunted his disgust.

"Tell him to wait," he said briefly.  And, in explanation to the others: "There's nothing the
matter with him.  I saw him on the street just before I came.  And wasn't he ringing his bell
not fifteen minutes ago?"

But the boy had not completed his message.  Ignacio was sick and did not wish to die, and so
had sent him to ask the Miss Lady Doctor to come to him.  Virginia rose swiftly.

"You see," she said to Mrs. Engle, "what a nuisance it would be if I lived with you?  May I
come to see you to-morrow?"

While she said good night Engle got his hat.

"I'll go with you," he said.  "But, like Patten, I don't believe there is much the matter with
Chavez.  Maybe he thinks he'll get a free drink of whiskey."

"You see again," laughed Virginia from the doorway, "what it would be like, Mrs. Engle; if
every time I had to make a call and Mr. Engle deemed it necessary to go with me . . .  I'd
have to split my fees with him at the very least!  And I don't believe that I could afford
to do that."

"You could give me all that Ignacio pays you," chuckled Engle, "and never miss it!"

The boy waited for them and, when they came out into the starlight, flitted on ahead of them.
At the cottonwoods a man stepped out to meet them.

"Hello," said Engle, "it's Norton."

"I sent the boy for Miss Page," said Norton quickly.  "I had to have a word with her immediately.
And I'm glad that you came, Engle.  I want a favor of you; a mighty big favor of Miss Page."

The boy had passed on through the shadows and now was to be seen on the street.

"I guess you know you can count on me, Rod," said Engle quietly.  "What now?"

"I want you, when you go back to the house, to say that you have learned that Miss Page likes
horseback riding; then send a horse for her to the hotel stable, so that if she likes she can
have it in the early morning.  And say nothing about my having sent the boy."

Engle did not answer immediately.  He and Virginia stood trying to see the sheriff's features
through the darkness.  He had spoken quietly enough and yet there was an odd new note in his
voice; it was easy to imagine how the muscles about his lean jaw had tensed, how his eyes were
again the hard eyes of a man who saw his fight before him.

"I can trust you, John," continued Norton quickly.  "I can trust Ignacio Chavez; I can trust
Julius Struve.  And, if you want it in words of one syllable, I cannot trust Caleb Patten!"

"Hm," said Engle.  "I think you're mistaken there, my boy."

"Maybe," returned Norton.  "But I can't afford right now to take any unnecessary chances. 
Further," and in the gloom they saw his shoulders lifted in a shrug, "I am trusting Miss Page
because I've got to!  Which may not sound pretty, but which is the truth."

"Of course I'll do what you ask," Engle said.  "Is there anything else?"

"No.  Just go on with Miss Page to see Ignacio.  He will pretend to be doubled up with pain
and will tell his story of the tinned meat he ate for supper.  Then you can see her to the
hotel and go back home, sending the horse over right away.  Then she will ride with me to see
a man who is hurt . . . or she will not, and I'll have to take a chance on Patten."

"Who is it?" demanded Engle sharply.

"It's Brocky Lane," returned Norton, and again his voice told of rigid muscles and hard eyes.
"He's hurt bad, John.  And, if we're to do him any good we'd better be about it."

Engle said nothing.  But the slow, deep breath he drew into his lungs could not have been more
eloquent of his emotion had it been expelled in a curse.

"I'll slip around the back way to the hotel," said Norton.  "I'll be ready when Miss Page comes
in.  Good night, John."

Silently, without awaiting promise or protest from the girl, he was gone into the deeper shadows
of the cottonwoods.

CHAPTER VI

A RIDE THROUGH THE NIGHT

Ignacio Chavez, because thus he could be of service to el señor Roderico Nortone whom he admired
vastly and loved like a brother, drew to the dregs upon his fine Latin talent, doubled up and
otherwise contorted and twisted his lithe body until the sweat stood out upon his forehead.
His groans would have done ample justice to the occasion had he been dying.

Virginia treated him sparingly to a harmless potion she had secured at her room on the way,
put the bottle into the hands of Ignacio's withered and anxious old mother, informed the half
dozen Indian onlookers that she had arrived in time and that the bell-ringer would live, and
then was impatient to go with Engle to Struve's hotel.  Here Engle left her to return to his
home and to send the saddle-horse he had promised Norton.

"You can ride, can't you, Virginia?" he had asked.

"Yes," she assured him.

"Then I'll send Persis around; she's the prettiest thing in horseflesh you ever saw.  And the
gamest.  And, Virginia . . ."

He hesitated.  "Well?" she asked.

"There's not a squarer, whiter man in the world than Rod Norton," he said emphatically.  "Now
good night and good luck, and be sure to drop in on us to-morrow."

She watched him as he went swiftly down the street; then she turned into the hotel and down
the hall, which echoed to the click of her heels, and to her room.  She had barely had time
to change for her ride and to glance at her "war bag" when a discreet knock sounded at her
door.  Going to the door she found that it was Julius Struve instead of Norton.

"You are to come with me," said the hotel keeper softly.  "He is waiting with the horses."

They passed through the dark dining-room, into the pitch black kitchen and out at the rear
of the house.  A moment Struve paused, listening. Then, touching her sleeve, he hurried away
into the night, going toward the black line of cottonwoods, the girl keeping close to his heels.

At the dry arroyo Norton was waiting, holding two saddled horses. Without a word he gave her
his hand, saw her mounted, surrendered Persis's jerking reins into her gauntletted grip and
swung up to the back of his own horse.  In another moment, and still in silence, Virginia and
Norton were riding away from San Juan, keeping in the shadows of the trees, headed toward the
mountains in the north.

And now suddenly Virginia found that she was giving herself over utterly, unexpectedly to a
keen, pulsing joy of life.  She had surrendered into the sheriff's hands the little leather-case
which contained her emergency bottles and instruments; they had left San Juan a couple of hundred
yards behind, their horses were galloping; her stirrup struck now and then against Norton's
boot.  John Engle had not been unduly extravagant in praise of the mare Persis; Virginia sensed
rather than saw clearly the perfect, beautiful creature which carried her, delighted in the
swinging gallop, drew into her soul something of the serene glory of a starlit night on the
desert.  The soft thud of shod hoofs upon yielding soil was music to her, mingled as it came
with the creak of saddle leather, the jingle of bridle and spur-chains.  She wondered if there
had ever been so perfect a night, if she had ever mounted so finely bred a saddle animal.

Far ahead the San Juan mountains lifted their serrated ridge of ebony. On all other sides the
flat-lands stretched out seeming to have no end, suggesting to the fancy that they were kin
in vastitude to the clear expanse of the sky.  On all hands little wind-shaped ridges were
like crests of long waves in an ocean which had just now been stilled, brooded over by the
desert silence and the desert stars.

"I suppose," said Norton at last, "that it's up to me to explain."

"Then begin," said Virginia, "by telling me where we are going."

He swung up his arm, pointing.

"Yonder.  To the mountains.  We'll reach them in about two hours and a half.  Then, in another
two hours or so, we'll come to where Brocky is. Way up on the flank of Mt. Temple.  It's going
to be a long, hard climb.  For you, at the end of a tiresome day. . . ."

"How about yourself?" she asked quickly, and he knew that she was smiling at him through the
dark.  "Unless you're made of iron I'm almost inclined to believe that after your friend Brocky
I'll have another patient.  Who is he, by the way?"

"Brocky Lane?  I was going to tell you.  You saw something stirring in the patio at Engle's?
I had seen it first; it was Ignacio who had slipped in under the wide arch from the gardens
at the rear of the house.  He had been sent for me by Tom Cutter, my deputy.  Brocky Lane is
foreman of a big cattle-ranch lying just beyond the mountains; he is also working with me and
with Cutter, although until I've told you nobody knows it but ourselves and John Engle. . .
.  Before the night is out you'll know rather a good deal about what is going on, Miss Page,"
he added thoughtfully.

"More than you'd have been willing for me to know if circumstance hadn't forced your hand?"

"Yes," he admitted coolly.  "To get anywhere we've had to sit tight on the game we're playing.
But, from the word Cutter brings, poor old Brocky is pretty hard hit, and I couldn't take any
chances with his life even though it means taking chances in another direction."

He might have been a shade less frank; and yet she liked him none the less for giving her the
truth bluntly.  He was but tacitly admitting that he knew nothing of her; and yet in this case
he would prefer to call upon her than on Caleb Patten.

"No, I don't trust Patten," he continued, the chain of thought being inevitable.  "Not that
I'd call him crooked so much as a fool for Jim Galloway to juggle with.  He talks too much."

"You wish me to say nothing of to-night's ride?"

"Absolutely nothing.  If you are missed before we get back Struve will explain that you were
called to see old Ramorez, a half-breed over yonder toward Las Estrellas.  That is, provided
we get back too late for it to appear likely that you are just resting in your room or getting
things shipshape in your office.  That's why I am explaining about Brocky."

"Since you represent the law in San Juan, Mr. Norton," she told him, "since, further, Mr. Engle
indorses all that you are doing, I believe that I can go blindfolded a little.  I'd rather
do that than have you forced against your better judgment to place confidence in a stranger."

"That's fair of you," he said heartily.  "But there are certain matters which you will have
to be told.  Brocky Lane has been shot down by one of Jim Galloway's crowd.  It was a coward's
job done by a man who would run a hundred miles rather than meet Brocky in the open.  And now
the thing which we don't want known is that Lane even so much as set foot on Mt. Temple.  We
don't want it known that he was anywhere but on Las Cruces Rancho; that he was doing anything
but give his time to his duties as foreman there."

"In particular you don't want Jim Galloway to know?"

"In particular I don't want Jim Galloway to so much as suspect that Brocky Lane or Tom Cutter
or myself have any interest in Mt. Temple," he said emphatically.

"But if the man who shot him is one of Galloway's crowd, as you say. . . ."

"He'll do no talking for a while.  After having seen Brocky drop he took one chance and showed
half of his cowardly carcass around a boulder.  Whereupon Brocky, weak and sick and dizzy as
he was, popped a bullet into him."

She shuddered.

"Is there nothing but killing of men among you people?" she cried sharply.  "First the sheepman
from Las Palmas, then Brocky Lane, then the man who shot him. . . ."

"Brocky didn't kill Moraga," Norton explained quietly.  "But he dropped him and then made him
throw down his gun and crawl out of the brush. Then Tom Cutter gathered him in, took him across
the county line, gave him into the hands of Ben Roberts who is sheriff over there, and came
on to San Juan.  Roberts will simply hold Moraga on some trifling charge, and see that he keeps
his mouth shut until we are ready for him to talk."

"Then Brocky Lane and Tom Cutter were together on Mt. Temple?"

"Near enough for Tom to hear the shooting."

They grew silent again.  Clearly Norton had done what explaining he deemed necessary and was
taking her no deeper into his confidences. She told herself that he was right, that these were
not merely his own personal secrets, that as yet he would be unwise to trust a stranger further
than he was forced to.  And yet, unreasonably or not, she felt a little hurt.  She had liked
him from the beginning and from the beginning she felt that in a case such as his she would
have trusted to intuition and have held back nothing.  But she refrained from voicing the questions
which none the less insisted upon presenting themselves to her: What was the thing that had
brought both Brocky Lane and Tom Cutter to Mt. Temple?  What had they been seeking there in
a wilderness of crag and cliff?  Why was Roderick Norton so determined that Jim Galloway should
not so much as suspect that these men were watchful in the mountains?  What sinister chain
of circumstance had impelled Moraga, who Norton said was Galloway's man, to shoot down the
cattle foreman?  And Galloway himself, what type of man must he be if all that she had heard
of him were true; what were his ambitions, his plans, his power?

Before long Norton pointed out the shadowy form of Mt. Temple looming ever vaster before them,
its mass of rock, of wind-blown, wind-carved peaks lifted in sombre defiance against the stars.
It brooded darkly over the lower slopes, like an incubus it dominated the other spines and
ridges, its gorges filled with shadow and mystery, its precipices making the sense reel dizzily.
And somewhere up there high against the sky, alone, suffering, perhaps dying, a man had waited
through the slow hours, and still awaited their coming.  How slowly she and Norton were riding,
how heartless of her to have felt the thrill of pleasure which had possessed her so utterly
an hour ago!

Or less than an hour.  For now again, wandering out far across the open lands, came the heavy
mourning of the bell.

"How far can one hear it?" she asked, surprised that from so far its ringing came so clearly.

"I don't know how many miles," he answered.  "We'll hear it from the mountain.  I should have
heard it to-day, long before I met you by the arroyo, had I not been travelling through two
big bands of Engle's sheep."

Behind them San Juan drawn into the shadows of night but calling to them in mellow-toned cadences
of sorrow, before them the sombre canons and iron flanks of Mt. Temple, and somewhere, still
several hours away, Brocky Lane lying helpless and perhaps hopeless; grim by day the earth
hereabouts was inscrutable by night, a mighty, primal sphinx, lip-locked, spirit-crushing.
The man and girl riding swiftly side by side felt in their different ways according to their
different characters and previous experience the mute command laid upon them, and for the most
part their lips were hushed.

There came the first slopes, the talus of strewn, broken, disintegrating rock, and then the
first of the cliffs.  Now the sheriff rode in the fore and Virginia kept her frowning eyes
always upon his form leading the way.  They entered the broad mouth of a ravine, found an uneven
trail, were swallowed up by its utter and impenetrable blackness.

"Give Persis her head," Norton advised her.  "She'll find her way and follow me."

His voice, low-toned as it was, stabbed through the silence, startling her, coming unexpectedly
out of the void which had drawn him and his horse gradually beyond the quest of her straining
eyes.  She sighed, sat back in her saddle, relaxed, and loosened her reins.

For an hour they climbed almost steadily, winding in and out.  Now, high above the bed of the
gorge, the darkness had thinned about them; more than once the girl saw the clear-cut silhouette
of man and beast in front of her or swerving off to right or left.  When, after a long time,
he spoke again he was waiting for her to come up with him.  He had dismounted, loosened the
cinch of his saddle and tied his horse to a stunted, twisted tree in a little flat.

"We have to go ahead on foot now," he told her as he put out his hand to help her down.  And
then as they stood side by side: "Tired much?"

"No," she answered.  "I was just in the mood to ride."

He took down the rope from her saddle strings, tied Persis, and, saying briefly, "This way,"
again went on.  She kept her place almost at his heels, now and again accepting the hand he
offered as their way grew steeper underfoot.  Half an hour ago she knew that they had swerved
off to the left, away from the deep gorge into whose mouth they had ridden so far below; now
she saw that they were once more drawing close to the steep-walled cañon.  Its emptiness, black
and sinister, lay between them and a group of bare peaks which stood up like cathedral spires
against the sky.

"This would be simple enough in the daytime," Norton told her during one of their brief pauses.
"In the dark it's another matter.  Not tired out, are you?"

"No," she assured him the second time, although long ago she would have been glad to throw
herself down to rest, were their errand less urgent.

"We've got some pretty steep climbing ahead of us yet," he went on quietly.  "You must be careful
not to slip.  Oh," and he laughed carelessly, "you'd stop before you got to the bottom, but
then a drop of even half a dozen feet is no joke here.  If you'll pardon me I'll make sure
for you."

With no further apology or explanation he slipped the end of a rope about her waist, tying
it in a hard knot.  Until now she had not even known that he had brought a rope; now she wondered
just how hazardous was the hidden trail which they were travelling; if it were in truth but
the matter of half a dozen feet which she would fall if she slipped?  He made the other end
of the short tether fast about his own body, said "Ready?" and again she followed him closely.

There came little flat spaces, then broken boulders to clamber over, then steep, rugged climbs,
when they grasped the rough rocks with both hands and moved on with painful slowness.  It seemed
to the girl that they had been climbing for long, tedious hours since they had slipped out
of their saddles; though to him she said nothing, locking her lips stubbornly, she knew that
at last she was tired, very tired, that an end of this laborious ascent must come soon or she
would be forced to stop and lie down and rest.

"Fifteen minutes more," said the sheriff, "and we're there.  We'll use the first five minutes
of it for a rest, too."

He made her sit down, unstoppered a canteen which, like the coil of rope, she had not known
he carried, and gave her a drink of water which seemed to her the most wonderfully strength-making,
life-giving draft in the world.  Then he dropped down at her side, looked at his watch in the
light of a flaring match carefully cupped in his hand, and lighted his pipe.

"Nearly midnight," he told her.

Without replying she lay back against the slope of the mountain, closed her eyes and relaxed,
breathing deeply.  Her chest expanded deeply to the long indrawn breath which filled her lungs
with the rare air.  She felt suddenly a little sleepy, dreaming longingly of the unutterable
content one could find in just going to sleep with the cliff-scarred mountainside for couch.

She stirred and opened her eyes.  Rod Norton, the sheriff of San Juan, a man who a few brief
hours ago had been unknown to her, his name unfamiliar, sat two paces from her, smoking.  She
and this man of whom she still knew rather less than nothing were alone in the world; just
the two of them lifted into the sky, separated by a dreary stretch of desert lands from other
men and women . . . bound together by a bit of rope.  She tried to see his face; the profile,
more guessed than seen, appeared to her fancy as unrelenting as the line of cliff just beyond
him, clear-cut against the sky.

Yet somehow . . . she did not definitely formulate the thought of which she was at the time
but dimly, vaguely conscious . . . she was glad that she had come to San Juan.  And she was
not afraid of the silent man at her side, nor sorry that circumstance had given them this night
and its labors.

Norton knocked out his pipe.  Together they got to their feet.

"More careful than ever now," he cautioned her.  "Look out for each step and go slowly.  We're
there in ten minutes.  Ready?"

"Ready," she answered.

CHAPTER VII

IN THE HOME OF CLIFF-DWELLERS

Those remaining ten minutes tried all that there was of endurance in Virginia Page.  Often
Norton, bidding her wait a moment, climbed on to some narrow ledge above her and, drawing the
rope steadily through his hands, gave her what aid he could; often, clinging with hand and
foot she thought breathlessly of the steep fall of cliff which the darkness hid from her eyes,
but which grew ever steeper in her mind as she struggled on.  He had said it would be easier
in daylight; she wondered if after all it would not have been more difficult could she have
seen just what were the chances she was taking at every moment.  But more and more she came
to have utter faith in the quiet man going on before her, and in the piece of rope which stretched
taut between them.

"And now," said Norton at last, when once more he had drawn her up to him and they stood close
together upon a narrow ledge, "we've got a good, safe trail under foot.  Good news, eh?"

But as he moved on now he kept her hand locked tight in his own.  Their "good, safe trail"
was a rough ledge running almost horizontally along the cliffside, its trend scarcely perceptibly
upward.  Within twenty steps it led them into a wide, V-shaped fissure in the rocks.  Then
came a sort of cup in a nest of rugged peaks, its bottom filled with imprisoned soil worn from
the spires above.  As Norton, relinquishing her hand, went forward swiftly she heard a man's
voice saying weakly:

"That you, Rod?"

"I came as soon as I could, Brocky."  Norton, standing close to a big outjutting boulder upon
the far side of the cup, was bending over the cattleman.  "How are you making out, old man?"

"I've sure been having one hell of a nice little party," grunted Brocky Lane faintly.  "A man's
so damn close to heaven on these mountain tops. . . .  Who's that?"

Virginia came forward quickly and went down on her knees at Lane's side.

"I'm Dr. Page," she said quietly. The name of the father was Tom Beazeley, but he was always known
on the river as "old Tom" or, as some more learned wag had christened
him, "the Merman on two sticks." As soon as we had put our traps on
board, as old Tom called them, he received his orders, and we cast
off from the wharf.

The wind was favourable. Young Tom was as active as a monkey, and as full
of tricks. His father took the helm, while we two, assisted by a
dog of the small Newfoundland breed, which Tom had taught to take
a rope in his teeth, and be of no small service to two boys in bowsing
on a tackle, made sail upon the lighter, and away we went, while old
Tom's strain might be heard from either shore.

"Loose, loose every sail to the breeze, The course of the vessel improve, I've done with the toil of
the seas, Ye sailors, I'm bound to my love.

"Tom, you beggar, is the bundle ready for your mother? We must drop the
skiff, Jacob, at Battersea reach, and send the clothes on shore for
the old woman to wash, or there'll be no clean shirts for Sunday.

Shove in your shirts, Jacob; the old woman won't mind that.

She used to wash for the mess.

Clap on, both of you, and get another pull at those haulyards. That'll
do, my bantams.

"Hoist, hoist, every sail to the breeze, Come, shipmates, and join in
the song, Let's drink while the barge cuts the seas, To the gale
that may drive her along.

"Tom, where's my pot of tea?

Come, my boy, we must pipe to breakfast.

Jacob, there's a rope towing overboard.

Now, Tom, hand me my tea, and I'll steer her
with one hand, drink with the other, and as for the legs, the less
we say about them the better.

Tom's treble chimed in, handing him the pot--

"For breakfast a good
cup of tea.

"Silence, you sea-cook! how dare you shove in your penny whistle! How's
tide, Tom?"

"Three quarters ebb."

"No, it a'n't, you thief; how is it Jacob?"

"About half, I think."

"And you're right."

"What water have we down here on the side?"

"You must give the point a wide berth," replied I; "the shoals runs out."

"Thanky,
boy, so I thought, but wasn't sure:" and then old Tom burst out in
a beautiful air:

"Trust not too much your own opinion, When your
vessel's under weigh, Let good advice still bear dominion; That's
a compass will not stray."

"Old Tom, is that you?" hallooed a man from another barge.

"Yes; what's left of me, my hearty."

"You'll not fetch the bridges this tide--there's a strong breeze right
up the reaches below."

"Never mind, we'll do all we can.

"If unassailed by squall or shower, Wafted by the gentle gales Let's
not lose the favouring hour, While success attends our sails."

"Bravo, old Tom! why don't the boys get the lines out, for all the
fishes are listening for you," cried the man, as the barges were parted
by the wind and tide.

"I did once belong to a small craft called the Anon," observed old Tom,
"and they say as how the story was, that that chap could make the fish
follow him just when he pleased.

I know that when we were in the North Sea the shoals of seals would
follow the ship if you whistled; but these brutes have ears--now fish
hav'n't got none.

"Oh well do I remember that cold dreary land, here the northern light,
In the winter's night, Shone bright on its snowy strand.

"Jacob, have you finished your breakfast? Here, take the helm, while
I and Tom put the craft a little into apple-pie order."

Old Tom then stumped forward, followed by his son and the Newfoundland
dog, who appeared to consider himself as one of the most useful personages
on board.

After coiling down the ropes, and sweeping the decks, they went into
the cabin to make their little arrangements.

"A good lock that, Tom," cried the father, turning the key of the
cupboard.

(I recollected it, and that its snapping so loud was the occasion of my being tossed overboard.)
Old Tom continued: "I say, Tom, you won't be able to open that cupboard,
so I'll put the sugar and the grog into it, you scamp.

It goes too fast when you're purser's steward.

"For grog
is our larboard and starboard, Our main-mast, our mizzen, our log,
On shore, or at sea, or when harbour'd, The mariner's compass is grog."

"But

it arn't
a compass to steer steady by, father," replied Tom.

"Then don't you have nothing to do with it, Tom."

"I only takes a little, father, because you mayn't take too much."

"Thanky for nothing; when do I ever take too much, you scamp?"

"Not too much for a man standing on his own pins, but too much for
a man on two broomsticks."

"Stop your jaw, Mr Tom, or I'll unscrew one of the broomsticks, and
lay it over your shoulders."

"Before it's out of the socket, I'll give you leg-bail.

What will you do then, father?"

"Catch you when I can, Tom, as the spider takes the fly."

"What's the good o' that, when you can't bear malice for ten minutes?"

"Very true, Tom? then thank your stars that you have two good legs,
and that your poor father has none."

"I very often do thank my stars, and that's the truth of it; but what's
the use of being angry about a drop of rum, or a handful of sugar?"

"Because
you takes more than your allowance."

"Well, do you take less, then all will be right."

"And why should I take less, pray?"

"Because you're only half a man; you haven't any legs to provide for, as I have."

"Now, I tell you, Tom, that's the very reason why I should have more
to comfort my old body for the loss of them."

"When you lost your legs you lost your ballast, father, and, therefore,
you mustn't carry too much sail, or you'll topple overboard some dark
night.

If I drink
the grog, it's all for your good, you see."

"You're a dutiful son in that way, at all events; and a sweet child,
as far as sugar goes; but Jacob is to sleep in the cabin with me,
and you'll shake your blanket forward."

"Now that I consider quite unnatural; why part father and son?"

"It's not that exactly, it's only parting son and the grog bottle."

"That's just as cruel; why part two such good friends?"

"'Cause,
Tom, he's too strong for you, and floors you sometimes."

"Well, but I forgives
him; it's all done in good humour."

"Tom, you're a wag; but you wag your tongue to no purpose. Liquor ain't
good for a boy like you, and it grows upon you."

"Well, don't I grow too? we grow together."

"You'll grow faster without it."

"I've no wish to be a tall man cut short, like you."

"If I hadn't been a tall man, my breath would have been cut short
for ever; the ball which took my legs would have cut you right in
half."

"And the ball
that would take your head off, would whistle over mine; so there
we are equal again."

"And there's the grog fast," replied old Tom, turning the key, and
putting it into his pocket.

"That's a stopper over all; so
now we'll go on deck."

I have narrated this conversation, as it will give the reader a better
idea of Tom, and his way of treating his father.

Tom was fond of his father, and although mischievous, and too fond of drinking
when he could obtain liquor, was not disobedient or vicious. We had
nearly reached Battersea Fields when they returned on deck.

"Do you know, Jacob, how the parish of Battersea came into the possession
of those fields?"

"No, I do not."

"Well, then, I'll tell you; it was because the Battersea people were
more humane and charitable than their neighbours.

There was a time when those fields were of no value; now they're
worth a mint of money, they say.

The body of a poor devil, who was drowned
in the river, was washed on shore on those banks, and none of the
parishes would be at the expense of burying it.

The Battersea people,
though they had least right to be called upon, would not allow the
poor fellow's corpse to be lying on the mud, and they went to the
expense.

Now, when the fields became of value, the other parishes were ready enough
to claim them; but the case was tried, and as it was proved that Battersea
had buried the body, the fields were decided to belong to that parish.

So they were well paid for their humanity, and they deserved it. Mr
Drummond says you know the river well, Jacob."

"I was born on it."

"Yes, so I heard, and all about your father and mother's death.

I was telling Tom of it, because he's too fond of bowsing up his jib."

"Well, father, there's no occasion to remind Jacob; the tear is in
his eye already," replied Tom, with consideration.

"I wish you never had any other drop in your eye,--but never mind, Jacob, I
didn't think of what I was saying.

Look ye, d'ye see that little house with the two chimneys--that's mine,
and there's my old woman.--I wonder what she's about just now."

Old Tom paused for a while, with his eyes fixed on the object, and
then burst out:--

"I've crossed the wide waters, I've trod the lone
strand, I've triumphed in battle, I've lighted the brand, I've borne
the loud thunder of death o'er the foam; Fame, riches, ne'er found
them,--yet still found a home.

"Tom, boy, haul up the skiff and paddle on shore with the bundle;
ask the old woman how she is, and tell her I'm hearty."

Tom was in the boat in a moment, and pulling lustily for the shore.

"That makes me recollect when I returned to my mother, a'ter the first
three years of my sea service.

I borrowed the skiff from the skipper.--I was in a Greenland-man,
my first ship, and pulled ashore to my mother's cottage under the
cliff.

I thought the old soul would have died with joy."

Here old Tom was silent, brushed a tear from his eye, and, as usual,
commenced a strain, sotto voce:--

"Why, what's that to you if my
eyes I'm a wiping?

A tear is a pleasure, d'ye see, in its way.

"How, miserable," continued he, after another pause, "the poor thing was when
I would go to sea--how she begged and prayed--boys have no feeling, that's
sartin."

"O bairn, dinna leave me, to gang far away, O bairn, dinna leave me,
ye're a' that I hae, Think on a mither, the wind and the wave, A mither
set on ye, her feet in the grave.

"However, she got used to it at last, as the woman said when she skinned the
ells. Tom's a good boy, Jacob, but not steady, as they say you are. His
mother spoils him, and I can't bear to be cross to him neither; for
his heart's in the right place, after all. There's the old woman shaking
her dish-clout at us as a signal.

I wish I had gone on shore myself, but I can't step into these paper-built
little boats without my timber toes going through at the bottom."

CHAPTER NINE.

THE TWO TOMS TAKE TO PROTOCOLLING--TREATY OF PEACE RATIFIED BETWEEN THE
BELLIGERENT PARTIES--LOTS OF SONGS AND SUPPER--THE LARGEST MESS OF ROAST
MEAT UPON RECORD.

Tom then shoved off the skiff.

When half-way between the lighter and the shore, while his mother
stood watching us, he lay on his oars.

"Tom, Tom!" cried his mother, shaking her fist at him, as he stooped
down his head; "if you do, Tom!"

"Tom, Tom!" cried his father, shaking his fist also; "if
you dare, Tom!"

But Tom was not within reach of either party; and he dragged a bottle
out of the basket which his mother had entrusted to him, and putting
it to his mouth, took a long swig.

"That's
enough, Tom!" screamed his mother, from the shore.

"That's too much, you rascal!" cried his father, from the barge.

Neither admonition was, however, minded by Tom, who took what he considered
his allowance, and then very coolly pulled alongside, and handed up
the basket and bundle of clean clothes on deck.

Tom then
gave the boat's painter to his father, who, I perceived, intended to salute him
with the end of it as soon as he came up; but Tom was too knowing--
he surged the boat ahead, and was on deck and forward before his father
could stump up to him.

The main hatch was open, and Tom put that
obstacle between his father and himself before he commenced his parley.

"What's the matter, father?" said Tom, smiling, and looking at me.

"Matter,
you scamp! How dare you touch the bottle?"

"The bottle--the bottle's there,
as good as ever."

"The grog is what I mean--how dare you drink it?"

"I was half-way between my mother and you, and so I drank success and
long life to you both.

Ain't that being a very dutiful son?"

"I wish I had my
legs back again, you rascal!"

"You wish you had the grog back again, you mean, father."

"You have to choose between--for if you had the grog you'd keep your legs."

"For
the matter of drinking the grog, you scamp, you seem determined to stand
in my shoes."

"Well, shoes are of no use to you now, father--why shouldn't I? Why don't
you trust me? If you hadn't locked the cupboard, I wouldn't have
helped myself." And Tom, whose bootlace was loose, stooped down to make
it fast.

Old Tom, who was still in wrath, thought this a good opportunity, as
his son's head was turned the other way, to step over the bricks,
with which, as I before said, the lighter had been laden level with
the main hatchway, and take his son by surprise. Tom, who had no idea
of this manoeuvre, would certainly have been captured, but, fortunately
for him, one of the upper bricks turned over, and let his father's wooden
leg down between two of the piles, where it was jammed fast. Old Tom
attempted to extricate himself, but could not. "Tom, Tom, come here,"
cried he, "and pull me out."

"Not I," replied Tom.

"Jacob, Jacob, come here; Tom, run and take the helm."

"Not I," replied Tom.

"Jacob, never mind the helm, she'll drift all right for a minute," cried
old Tom; "come and help me."

But I had been so amused with the scene, and having a sort of feeling for
young Tom, that I declared it impossible to leave the helm without her
going on the banks. I therefore remained, wishing to see in what way
the two Toms would get out of their respective scrapes.

"Confound these--! Tom, you scoundrel, am I to stick here all day?"

"No,
father, I don't suppose you will. I shall help you directly."

"Well, then, why don't you do it?"

"Because I must come to terms. You don't think I'd help myself to a thrashing,
do you?"

"I won't thrash you, Tom. Shiver my timbers if I do."

"They're in a fair way of being shivered as it is, I think. Now, father,
we're both even."

"How's that?"

"Why you clapped a stopper over all on me this morning, and now you've
got one on yourself."

"Well, then, take off mine, and I'll take off yours."

"If I unlock your leg, you'll unlock the cupboard?"

"Yes."

"And you promise me a stiff one after dinner?"

"Yes, yes, as stiff as I stand here."

"No, that will be too much, for it would set me fast. I only like it
about half-and-half, as I took it just now."

Tom, who was aware that his father would adhere to his agreement,
immediately went to his assistance, and throwing out some of the upper
bricks, released him from his confinement. When old Tom was once more
on deck and on his legs, he observed, "It's an ill wind that blows
nobody good. The loss of my leg has been the saving of you many a time,
Mr Tom."

It was now time to anchor, as we were meeting the flood. Tom, who officiated
as cook, served up the dinner, which was ready; and we were all very
pleasant; Tom treating his father with perfect confidence. As we had not
to weigh again for some hours, our repast was prolonged, and old Tom,
having fulfilled his promise to his son of a stiff one, took one or
two himself, and became very garrulous.

"Come, spin us a good yarn, father; we've nothing to do, and Jacob will
like to hear you."

"Well, then, so I will," answered he; "what shall it be about?"

"Fire and water, of course," replied Tom.

"Well, then, I'll tell
you something about both, since you wish it; how I came into his Majesty's
sarvice, through fire, and how the officer who pressed me went out
of it through water. I was still 'prentice, and wanted about three
months to sarve my time, when, of course, I should no longer be protected
from sarving the king, when the ship I was in sailed up the Baltic
with a cargo of bullocks. We had at least two hundred on board, tied
up on platforms on every deck, with their heads close to the sides,
and all their sterns looking in-board. They were fat enough when they
were shipped, but soon dwindled away: the weather was very bad, and
the poor creatures rolled against each other, and slipped about in
a way that it pitied you to see them. However, they were stowed so
thick, that they held one another up, which proved of service to them
in the heavy gales which tossed the ship about like a pea in a rattle.
We had joined a large convoy, and were entering the Sound, when, as
usual, it fell calm, and out came the Danish gunboats to attack us.
The men-of-war who had charge of the convoy behaved nobly; but still
they were becalmed, and many of us were a long way astern. Our ship
was pretty well up; but she was too far in-shore; and the Danes made
a dash at us with the hope of making a capture. The men-of-war, seeing
what the enemy were about, sent boats to beat them off; but it was
too late to prevent them boarding, which they did. Not wishing to
peep through the bars of the gaol at Copenhagen, we left the ship
in our boats on one side, just as the Danes boarded on the other,
and pulled towards the men-of-war's armed boats coming to our assistance.
The men-of-war's boats pulled right for the ship to retake her, which
they did, certainly, but not before the enemy had set fire to the
vessel, and had then pulled off towards another. Seeing this, the
men-of-war's boats again gave chase to the Danes, leaving us to extinguish
the flames, which were now bursting out fore and aft, and climbing
like fiery serpents up to the main catharprings. We soon found that
it was impossible; we remained as long as the heat and smoke would
permit us, and then we were obliged to be off, but I shall never forget
the roaring and moaning of the poor animals who were then roasting
alive. It was a cruel thing of the Danes to fire a vessel full of
these poor creatures. Some had broken loose, and were darting up and
down the decks goring others, and tumbling down the hatchways; others
remained trembling, or trying to snuff up a mouthful of fresh air
amongst the smoke; but the struggling and bellowing, as the fire caught
the vessel fore and aft, and was grilling two hundred poor creatures
at once, was at last shocking, and might have been heard for a mile.
We did all we could. I cut the throats of a dozen, but they kicked
and struggled so much, falling down [upon], and treading you under
their feet; and one lay upon me, and I expected to be burnt with them,
for it was not until I was helped that I got clear of the poor animal.
So we stayed as long as we could, and then left them to their fate;
and the smell of burnt meat, as we shoved off, was as horrible as
the cries and wailings of the poor beasts themselves. The men-of-war's
boats returned, having chased away the Danes, and very kindly offered
us all a ship, as we had lost our own, so that you see that by fire
I was forced into his Majesty's sarvice. Now, the boat that took us
belonged to one of the frigates who had charge of the convoy, and
the lieutenant who commanded the boat was a swearing, tearing sort
of a chap, who lived as if his life was to last for ever.

"After
I was taken on board, the captain asked me if I would enter, and I
thought that I might as well sarve the king handsomely, so I volunteered.
It's always the best thing to do, when you're taken, and can't help
yourself, for you are more trusted than a pressed man who is obstinate.
I liked the sarvice from the first--the captain was not a particular
man; according to some people's ideas of the sarvice, she wasn't in
quite man-of-war fashion, but she was a happy ship, and the men would
have followed and fought for the captain to the last drop of their
blood. That's the sort of ship for me. I've seen cleaner decks, but
I never saw merrier hearts. The only one of the officers disliked
by the men was the lieutenant who pressed me; he had a foul mouth
and no discretion; and as for swearing, it was really terrible to
hear the words which came out of his mouth. I don't mind an oath rapped
out in the heat of the moment, but he invented his oaths when he was
cool, and let them out in his rage. We were returning home, after
having seen the convoy safe, when we met with a gale of wind in our
teeth, one of the very worst I ever fell in with. It had been blowing
hard from the South West, and then shifted to the North West, and
made a cross sea, which was tremendous. Now, the frigate was a very
old vessel, and although they had often had her into dock and repaired
her below, they had taken no notice of her upper works, which were
as rotten as a medlar. I think it was about three bells in the middle
watch, when the wind was howling through the rigging, for we had no
canvas on her 'cept a staysail and trysail, when the stay-sail sheet
went, and she broached-to afore they could prevent her. The lieutenant
I spoke of had the watch, and his voice was heard through the roaring
of the wind swearing at the men to haul down the staysail, that we
might bend on the sheet, and set it right again; when, she having,
I said, broached-to, a wave--ay, a wave as high as the maintop almost,
took the frigate right on her broadside, and the bulwarks of the quarter-deck
being, as I said, quite rotten, cut them off clean level with the
main chains, sweeping them, and guns, and men, all overboard together.

"But he didn't tell all of this," Norton informed her.  "The Indian died without guessing what
I have told you.  He merely knew that the rifles were here because Galloway had employed him
to bring them and because he was the man who told Galloway of this hiding-place.  He believed
that Galloway's whole scheme was to smuggle a lot of arms and ammunition south and across the
border, selling to the Mexicans.  But from what little he could tell Chavez and from what we
found out for ourselves, the whole play became pretty obvious.  No, Galloway hasn't been talking
and he has been playing as safe as a man can upon such business as this.  His luck was against
him, that's all, when the Indian died and insisted on being rung out by the San Juan bells.
There's always that little element of chance in any business, legitimate or otherwise. . .
.  And now, if you'll finish your breakfast I'll show you a view you'll never forget and then
we'll hit the trail."

"But, Mr. Lane," she asked, "you don't intend to leave him here all alone?  He will get well
with the proper attention; but be must have that."

"Within another hour or so," Norton told her, "Tom Cutter will be back with one of Brocky's
cowboys.  They'll move Lane into a cañon on the other side of the mountain.  Oh, I know he
oughtn't to be moved, but what else can we do?  Besides, Brocky insists on it.  Then they'll
arrange to take care of him; if necessary you'll come out again to-morrow night?"

"Of course," she said.  She went to Brocky and held out her hand to him.  "I understand now,
I think, why you would refuse to die, no matter how badly you were hurt, until you had helped
Mr. Norton finish the work you have set your hands to.  It's an honor, Mr. Lane, to have a
patient like you."

Whereupon Brocky Lane grew promptly crimson and tongue-tied.

"And now the view, Mr. Norton, and I am ready to go."

He led the way to the outer ledge from which last night they had entered the cave.

"In daylight you can see half round the world from here," he said as they stood with their
backs to the rock.  "Now you can get an idea of what it's like."

Below her was the chasm formed by these cliffs standing sheer and fronting other tall cliffs
looming blackly, the stars beginning to fade in the sky above them.  Norton pushed a stone
outward with his boot; she heard it strike, rebound, strike again . . . and then there was
silence; when the falling stone reached the bottom no sound came back to tell her how far it
had dropped.

Turning a little to look southward, she saw the cliffs standing farther and farther back on
each side so that the eye might travel between them and out over the lower slopes and the distant
stretches of level land which, more now than ever, seemed a great limitless sea.  The stars
were paling rapidly; the first glint of the new day was in the air, the world lay shadowy and
silent and lifeless, softened in the seeming, but, as in the daytime, slumbrous under an atmosphere
of brooding mystery.

"When you told me last night . . . when you put your rope around me and said that I might fall
half a dozen feet. . . ."

"Had we fallen it would have been a hundred feet, many a time," he said quietly.  "But I knew
we wouldn't fall.  And," looking into her face with an expression in his eyes which the shadows
hid, "I shouldn't have sought to minimize the danger to you had I known you as well as I think
I know you now."

"Thank you," she said lightly.  But she was conscious of a warm pleasurable glow throughout
her entire being.  It was good to live life in the open, it was good to stand upon the cliff
tops with a man like Roderick Norton, it was good to have such a man speak thus.

Five minutes later they were making their way down the cliffs toward the horses.

CHAPTER IX

YOUNG PAGE COMES TO TOWN

Here and there throughout the great stretches of the sun-smitten southwest are spots which
still remain practically unknown, wherein men come seldom or not at all, where no man cares
to tarry.  Barren mountains that are blistering hot, sucked dry long ago of their last vestige
of moisture; endless drifts of sand where the silent animal life is scanty, where fanged cactus
and stubborn mesquite fight their eternal battles for life; mesas and lomas little known, shunned
by humanity.  True, men have been here, some few poking into the dust of ancient ruins, more
seeking minerals, and now and then one, fleeing the law, to be followed relentlessly by such
as Roderick Norton.  And yet there is the evidence, if one looks, that this desolate, shunned
land once had its teeming tribes and its green fields.

Virginia and Roderick, having made their hazardous way down the cliffs and to their horses
in silence, found their tongues loosened as they rode westward in the soft dawn.  Virginia
put her questions and he, as best he could, answered them.  She asked eagerly of the old cliff-dwellers
and he shrugged his shoulders.  Aztecs, were they? Toltecs?  What?  Quien sabe!  They were
a people of mystery who had left behind them a silence like that of the desert wastes themselves.
Whence they came, where they went, and why, must long remain questions with many answers and
therefore none at all.  But he could tell her a few things of the ancient civilization . .
. and a civilization it truly was . . . and of the signs left for posterity to puzzle over.

They had builded cities, and the ruins of their pueblos still stand scattered across the weary,
scorched land; they constructed mile after mile of aqueducts whose lines are followed to-day
by reclamation engineers; they irrigated and cultivated their lands; they made abodes high
up on the mountains, dwelling in caves, enlarging their dwellings, shaping homes and fortresses
and lookouts.  And just so long as the mountains themselves last, will men come now and then
into such places as that wherein Jim Galloway's rifles lay hidden.

"I have lived in this part of the world all but two or three years of my life," said Norton
at the end, "and yet I never heard of these particular caves until a very few days ago.  I
don't believe that there are ten people living who know of them; so Galloway, hiding his stuff
out there was playing just as safe as a man can play--when he plays the game crooked, anyway."

"But won't he guess something when he misses Moraga?"

"I don't think so." Norton shook his head.  "Tom Cutter and Brocky made Moraga talk.  His job
was to keep an eye on this end, but he was commissioned also to make a trip over to the county
line.  The first thing Jim Galloway will hear will be that Moraga got drunk and into a scrape
and was taken in by Sheriff Roberts.  Then I think that Galloway himself will slip out of San
Juan himself some dark night and climb the cliffs to make sure.  When he finds everything absolutely
as it was left, when time passes and nothing is done, I think he will replace Moraga with another
man and figure that everything is all right.  Why shouldn't he?"

From Galloway and Moraga they got back to a discussion of the ancient peoples of the desert,
venturing surmise for surmise, finding that their stimulated fancies winged together, daring
to construct for themselves something of the forgotten annals of a forgotten folk who, perhaps,
were living in walled cities while old Egypt was building her pyramids.  Then, abruptly, in
a patch of tall mesquite, Norton reined in his horse and stopped.

"You understand why I must leave you here," he said.  "Yonder, beyond those trees straight
ahead . . . you will see it from that little ridge . . . is Las Estrellas, a town of a dozen
houses.  But before you get there you will come to the house where old Ramorez, a half-breed,
lives.  You remember; if you are missed in San Juan, Struve will say that you have gone to
see Ramorez.  He is actually sick by the way; maybe you can do something for him.  His shack
is in those cottonwoods, this side of Las Estrellas.  You'll find Ignacio there, too; he'll
go back to San Juan with you.  And, once again, thank you."

He put out his hand; she gave him hers and for a moment they sat looking at each other gravely.
Then Norton smiled, the pleasant boyish smile, her lips curved at him deliciously, he touched
his hat and was gone.  And she, riding slowly, turned Persis toward Las Estrellas.

From Las Estrellas, an unkempt, ugly village strangely named, it was necessary to ride some
fifteen miles through sand and scrub before coming again into San Juan.  Virginia Page, sincerely
glad that she had made her call upon old Ramorez who was suffering painfully from acute stomach
trouble and whose distress she could partially alleviate, made the return ride in the company
of Ignacio.  But first, from Ramorez's baking hovel, the Indian conducted her to another where
a young woman with a baby a week old needed her.  So it was well on in the afternoon and with
a securely established alibi that she rode by the old Mission and to the hotel.  As Ignacio
rode listlessly away with the horses, as innocent looking a lazy beggar as the world ever knew,
Virginia caught a glimpse of a white skirt and cool sunshade coming up the street.

"Florence Engle," she thought.  "Who, no doubt, will cut me dead if I give her the opportunity."

A little hurriedly she turned in at the hotel door and went to her room.  She had removed hat
and gantlets, and was preparing for a bath and change of clothing when a light knock sounded
on her door.  The rap, preceded by quick little steps down the hall, was essentially feminine.

"Hello, Cousin Virginia," said Florence.  "May I come in?"

Virginia brought her in, gave her a chair and regarded her curiously. The girl's face was flushed
and pink, her eyes were bright and quite gay and untroubled, her whole air genuinely friendly.
Last night Virginia had judged her to be about seventeen; now she looked a mere child.

"I was perfectly nasty last night, wasn't I?" Florrie remarked as she stood her sunshade by
her chair and smiled engagingly.  "Oh, I know it. Just a horrid little cat . . . but then I'm
that most of the time.  I came all this way and in all this dust and heat just to ask you to
forgive me.  Will you?"

For the moment Virginia was nonplussed.  But Florence only laughed, clasped her hands somewhat
affectedly and ran on, her words tumbling out in helter-skelter fashion.

"Oh, I know.  I'm spoiled and I'm selfish, and I'm mean, I suppose. And, oh dear, I'm as jealous
as anything.  But I'm ashamed of myself this time.  Whew!  You ought to have listened in on
the party after you left!  If you could have heard mama scold me and papa jaw me about the
way I acted it would have made you almost sorry for me."

"But you weren't horrid at all," Virginia broke in at last, her heart suddenly warming to this
very obviously spoiled, futile, but none the less likable, Florrie.  "You mustn't talk that
way.  And if your parents made you come. . . ."

"They didn't," said Florrie calmly.  "They couldn't.  Nobody ever made me do anything; that's
what's the matter with me.  I came because I wanted to.  As the men say, I wanted to square
myself.  And, would you believe it, this is the third time I have called.  Mr. Struve kept
telling me that you had gone to see old Joe Ramorez . . . isn't he the awfullest old pirate
you ever saw?  And the dirtiest?  I don't see how you can go near a man like that, even if
he is dying; honestly I don't. But you must do all kinds of things, being a doctor."

Her clasped hands tightened, she put her head of fluffy hair to one side and looked at Virginia
with such frank wonder in her eyes that Virginia colored under them.

"And," ran on Florrie, forestalling a possible interruption, "I was ready to poke fun at you
last night just for being something capable and . . . and splendid.  There was my jealousy
again, I suppose.  You ought to have heard papa on that score; 'Look here, my fine miss; if
you could just be something worth while in the world, if you could do as much good in all of
your silly life as Virginia Page does every day of hers,' . . . and so forth until he was ready
to burst and mama was ready to cry, and I was ready to bite him!"  She trilled off in a burst
of laughter which was eloquent of the fact that Florence Engle, be her faults what they might,
was not the one to hold a grudge.

"I am sorry," said Virginia, smiling a little, "if on my account . . ."

"You were just going to get cleaned up, weren't you?" asked Florrie contritely.  "You look
as hot and dusty as anything.  My, what pretty hair you have; I'll bet it comes down to your
waist, doesn't it?  You ought to see mine when I take it down; it's like the pictures of the
bush-whackers . . . you know what I mean, from South Africa or somewhere, you know . . . only,
of course, mine's a prettier color. Sometime I'll come and comb yours for you, when you're
tired out from curing sick Indians.  But now," and she jumped to her feet, "I'll go out on
the porch while you get dressed and then you come out, will you? It's cool there under the
awning, and I'll have Mr. Struve bring us out some cold lemonade.  But first, you do forgive
me, don't you?"

Virginia's prompt assurance was incomplete when Florrie flitted out, banging the door after
her, headed toward the lounging-chairs on the veranda.

"You pretty thing!" exclaimed Miss Florrie as Virginia joined her as coolly and femininely
dressed, if not quite as fluffily, as the banker's daughter.  "Oh, but you are quite the most
stunning creature that ever came into San Juan!  Oh, I know all about myself; don't you suppose
I've stood in front of a glass by the long hours . . . wishing it was a wishing-glass all the
time and that I could turn a pug-nose into a Grecian.  I'm pretty; you're simply beautiful!"

"Look here, my dear," laughed Virginia, taking the chair which Florrie had drawn close up to
her own in the shade against the adobe wall, "you have already made amends.  It isn't necessary
to . . ."

"I haven't half finished," cried Florrie emphatically.  "You see it's a way of mine to do things
just by halves and quit there.  But to-day it is different; to-day I am going to square myself.
That's one reason why I treated you so cattishly last night; because you were so maddeningly
good to look upon.  Through a man's eyes, you know; and that's about all that counts anyway,
isn't it?  And the other reason was that you came in with Roddy and he looked so contented.
. . .  Do you wonder that I am just wild about him?  Isn't he a perfect dear?"

Florrie's utter frankness disconcerted Virginia.  The confession of "wildness" about San Juan's
sheriff, followed by the asseveration of his perfect dearness was made in bright frankness,
Florrie's voice lowered no whit though Julius Struve at the moment was coming down the veranda
bearing a tray and glasses.  Virginia was not without gratitude that Struve lingered a moment
and bantered with Florrie; when he departed she sought to switch the talk in another direction.
But Florrie, sipping her tall glass and setting it aside, was before her.

"You see it was double-barrelled jealousy; so I did rather well not to fly at you and tear
your eyes out, didn't I?  Just because you and he came in together . . . as if every time a
man and girl walk down the street together it means that they are going to get married!  But
you see, Roddy and I have known each other ever since before I can remember, and I have asked
myself a million times if some day we are going to be Mr. and Mrs. Roderick Norton . . . and
there are times when I think we are!"

"You have a long time ahead of you yet, haven't you, Florence, before you have to answer a
question like that?" asked Virginia amusedly.

"Because I am so young?" cried Florrie.  "Oh, I don't know; girls marry young here.  Now there
is Tita . . . she is our cook's sister . . . she has two babies already and she is only four
months older than I am. And . . .  Look, Virgie; there is the most terrible creature in the
world.  It is Kid Rickard; he killed the Las Palmas man, you know.  I am not going even to
look at him; I hate him worse that Caleb Patten . . . and that's like saying I hate strychnine
worse than arsenic, isn't it?  But who in the name of all that is wonderful is the man with
him?  Isn't he the handsome thing?  I never saw him before. He is from the outside, Virgie;
you can tell by the fashionable cut of his clothes and by the way he walks and . . .  Isn't
he distinguished!"

"It is Elmer!" exclaimed Virginia, staring at the two figures which were slowly approaching
from the southern end of the street.  "When did he get here?  I didn't expect him. . . ."

Then she chose to forget all save the essential fact that her "baby brother" was here and ran
out to the sidewalk, calling to him.

"Hello, Sis," returned Elmer nonchalantly.  He was a thin, anaemic-looking young fellow a couple
of years younger than Virginia who affected a swagger and gloves and who had a cough which
was insistent, but which he strove to disguise.  And yet Florrie's hyperbole had not been entirely
without warrant.  He had something of Virginia's fine profile, a look of her in his eyes, the
stamp of good blood upon him.  He suffered his sister to kiss him, meantime turning his eyes
with a faint sign of interest to the fair girl on the veranda. Florrie smiled.

"Sis," said Elmer, "this is Mr. Rickard.  Mr. Rickard, shake hands with my sister, Miss Page."

A feeling of pure loathing swept over the girl as she turned to look into Kid Rickard's sullen
eyes and degenerate, cruel face.  But, since the Kid was a couple of paces removed and was
slow about coming forward, not so much as raising his hand to his wide hat, she nodded at him
and managed to say a quiet, non-committal, "How do you do?"  Then she slipped her arm through
Elmer's.

"Come, Elmer," she said hastily.  "I want you to know Miss Florence Engle; she is a sort of
cousin of ours."

"Sure," said Elmer off-handedly.  "Come on, Rickard."

But the Kid, standing upon no ceremony, had drawn his hat a trifle lower over his eyes and
turned his shoulder upon them, continuing along the street in his slouching walk.  Elmer, summoning
youth's supreme weapon of an affected boredom, yawned, stifled his little cough and went with
Virginia to meet Florence.

Florence giggled over the introduction, then grew abruptly as grave as a matron of seventy
and tactlessly observed that Mr. Page had a very bad cold; how could one have a cold in weather
like this?  Whereupon Mr. Page glared at her belligerently, noted her little row of curls,
revised his first opinion of her, set her down not only as a cousin, but as a crazy kid besides,
and removed half a dozen steps to a chair.

"I don't think much of your friends," remarked Florrie, sensing sudden opposition and flying
half-way to meet it.

Elmer Page produced a very new, unsullied pipe from his pocket and filled it with an air, while
Virginia looked on curiously.  Having done so and having drawn up one trouser's leg to save
the crease, crossed the leg and at last put the pipe stem into his mouth, he regarded Florrie
from the cool and serene height of his superior age.

"If you refer to Mr. Rickard," he said aloofly, "I may say that he is not a friend . . . yet.
I just met him this afternoon.  But, although he hasn't had the social advantages, perhaps,
still he is a man of parts."

Florrie sniffed and tossed her head.  Virginia bit her lips and watched them.

"Been smoking too many cigs, I guess, Sis," Elmer remarked apropos of the initial observation
of Miss Engle which still rankled.  "Got a regular cigarette fiend's cough.  Gave 'em up. 
Hitting the pipe now."

"If you knew," said Florrie spitefully, "that Mr. Rickard as you call him had just murdered
a man yesterday, what would you say then, I wonder?"

There was a sparkle of excitement in Elmer's eyes as he swung about to answer.

"Murdered!" he challenged.  "You've heard just one side of it, of course.  Bisbee got drunk
and insulted Mr. Rickard.  They call him the Kid, you know.  Say, Sis, he's had a life for
you!  Full of adventure, all kinds of sport.  And Bisbee shot first, too.  But the Kid got
him!" he concluded triumphantly.  "Galloway told me all about it . . . and what a blundering
rummy the fool sheriff is."

"Galloway?" queried Virginia uneasily.  "You know him too, already?"

"Sure," replied Elmer.  "He's a good sort, too, You'll like him.  I asked him around."

"For goodness' sake, Elmer, when did you get to San Juan?  Have you been here a week or just
a few hours?"

"Got in on the stage at noon, of course.  But it doesn't take a man all year to get acquainted
in a town this size."

"A man!" giggled Florrie.

"I can see," laughed Virginia, "that you two are going to be more kin than kind to each other;
you'll be quarrelling in another moment."

Florrie looked delighted at the prospect; Elmer yawned and brooded over his pipe.  But out
of the tail of his eye he took stock again of her blonde prettiness, and she, ready from the
beginning to make fun of him, repeated to herself the words she had used to Virginia:

"But he is handsome . . . and distinguished looking!"

CHAPTER X

A BRIBE AND A THREAT

Virginia Page found time passing swiftly in San Juan.  Within two weeks she came almost to
forget how she had heard a rattle of pistol-shots, how the slow sobbing of a bell in the Mission
garden had bemoaned a life gone and a fresh crime upon a man's soul; at the end of a month
it seemed to her that she had dreamed that ride through the night with Roderick Norton, climbing
the cliffs, ministering to a stricken man in the forsaken abode of ancient cliff-dwellers.
She was like one marooned upon a tiny island in an immense sea who has experienced the crisis
of shipwreck and now finds existence suddenly resolved into a quiet struggle for the maintenance
of life . . . that and a placid expectation.  As another might have waited through the long,
quiet hours for the sign of a white sail or a black plume of smoke, so did she wait for the
end of a tale whose beginning had included her.

That the long days did not drag was due not so much to that which happened about her, as to
that which occurred within her.  She carried responsibility upon each shoulder; her life was
in the shaping and she and none other must make it what it would be; her brother's character
was at that unstable stage when it was ready to run into the mould. She had brought him here,
from the city to the rim of the desert--the step had been her doing, nobody's but hers.  And
she had come here far less for the sake of Elmer Page's cough than for the sake of his manhood.
She wanted him to grow to be a man one could be proud of; there were times when his eyes evaded
her and she feared the outcome.

"He is just a boy," she told herself, seeking courage.  It seemed such a brief time ago that
she had blown his nose for him and washed his face.  She made excuses for him, but did not
close her eyes to the truth.  The good old saw that boys will be boys failed to make of Elmer
all that she would have him.

Further to this consideration was another matter which filled the hours for her.  The few dollars
with which she had established herself in San Juan marched in steady procession out of her
purse and fewer other dollars came to take their places.  The Indian Ramorez whose stomach
trouble she had mitigated came full of gratitude and Casa Blanca whiskey and paid La Señorita
Doctor as handsomely as he could; he gave her his unlimited and eternal thanks and a very beautiful
hair rope. Neither helped her very greatly to pay for room and board.  Another Indian offered
her a pair of chickens; a third paid her seventy-five cents on account and promised the rest
soon.  When she came to know his type better she realized that he had done exceptionally well
by her.

She went often to the Engles', growing to love all three of them, each in a different way.
Florrie she found vain, spoiled, selfish, but all in so frank a fashion that in return for
an admittedly half-jealous admiration she gave a genuine affection.  And she was glad to see
how Elmer made friends with them, always appearing at his best in their home.  He and Florrie
were already as intimate as though they had grown up with a back-yard fence separating their
two homes; they criticised each other with terrible outspokenness, they made fun of each other,
they very frequently "hated and despised" each other and, utterly unknown to either Florrie
Engle or Elmer Page, were the best of friends.

Of Roderick Norton San Juan saw little through these weeks.  He came now and then, twice ate
with Virginia and Elmer at Struve's, talked seriously with John Engle, teased Florrie, and
went away upon the business which called him elsewhere.  Upon one of these visits he told Virginia
that Brocky Lane was "on the mend" and would be as good as new in a month; no other reference
was made to her ride with him.

But through his visits to San Juan, brief and few though they were, Roderick Norton was enabled
to assure himself with his own eyes that Kid Rickard was still to be found here if required,
that Antone, as usual, was behind the Casa Blanca bar; that Jim Galloway was biding his time
with no outward show of growing restless or impatient.  Tom Cutter, Norton's San Juan deputy,
was a man to keep both eyes open, and yet there were times when the sheriff was not content
with another man's vision.

Nor did the other towns of the county, scattered widely across the desert, beyond the mountains
and throughout the little valleys, see much more of him.  If a man wished word with Rod Norton
these days his best hope of finding him lay in going out to el Rancho de las Flores.

It was Norton's ranch, having been Billy Norton's before him, one of the choice spots of the
county bordering Las Cruces Rancho where Brocky Lane was manager and foreman.  Beyond the San
Juan mountains it lay across the head of one of the most fertile of the neighboring valleys,
the Big Water Creek giving it its greenness, its value, and the basis for its name.  Here for
days at a time the sheriff could in part lay aside the cares of his office, take the reins
out of his hired foreman's hands, ride among his cattle and horses, and dream such dreams as
came to him.

"One of these days I'll get you, Jim Galloway," he had grown into the habit of musing.  "Then
they can look for another sheriff and I can do what I want to do."

And his desire had grown very clearly defined to him; it was the old longing of a man who comes
into a wilderness such as this, the longing to make two blades of grass grow where one grew
before his coming. With his water rights a man might work modern magic; far back in the hills
he had found the natural site for his storage dams; slightly lower in a nest of hills there
would be some day a pygmy lake whose seductive beauty to him who dwells on desert lands calls
like the soft beauty of a woman; upon a knoll where now was nothing there would come to be
a comfortable, roomy, hospitable ranch-house to displace forever the shacks which housed the
men now farther down the slopes; and everywhere, because there was water aplenty, would there
be roses and grape-vines and orange-trees.  All this when he should get Jim Galloway.

From almost any knoll upon the Rancho de las Flores he could see the crests of Mt. Temple lifted
in clear-cut lines against the sky.  If he rode with Gaucho, his foreman, among the yearlings,
he saw Mt. Temple; if he rode the fifty miles to San Juan he saw the same peaks from the other
side.  And a hundred times he looked up at them with eyes which were at once impatient and
stern; he began to grow angry with Galloway for so long postponing the final issue.

For, though he did not go near the cliff caves, he knew that the rifles still lay there awaiting
Jim Galloway's readiness.  A man named Bucky Walsh was prospecting for gold upon the slopes
of Mt. Temple, a silent, leather-faced little fellow, quick-eyed and resourceful.  And, above
the discovery of color, it was the supreme business of Bucky Walsh to know what happened upon
the cliffs above him.  If there were anything to report no man knew better than he how to get
out of a horse all there was of speed in him.

In the end Norton called upon the reserves of his patience, saying to himself that if Jim Galloway
could bide his time in calmness he could do the same.  The easier since he was unshaken in
his confidence that the time was coming when he and Galloway would stand face to face while
guns talked.  Never once did he let himself hope for another ending.

Giving what time he had free to ranch matters at Las Flores the sheriff found other things
to occupy him.  There was a gamblers' fight one night at the camp at Las Palmas mines, a man
badly hurt, an ill-starred bystander dead, the careless gunman a fugitive, headed for the border.
Norton went out after him, shifted saddle from jaded beast to fresh again and again, rode two
hundred miles with only the short stops for hastily taken food and water and got his man willy-nilly
a mile below the border.  What was more, he made it his personal business that the man was
convicted and sentenced to a long term; about San Juan there was no crime less tolerable than
that of "shooting wild."

But all this brought him no closer to Jim Galloway; Galloway, meeting him shortly afterward
in San Juan, laughed and thanked him for the job. It appeared that the man whom Norton had
brought back to stand trial was not only no friend of the proprietor of the Casa Blanca, but
an out-spoken enemy.

"You'll be asking favors of me next, Norton," grinned the big, thick-bodied man.  "I'd pay
you real money for getting a few like him out of my way.  Get me, don't you?" and he passed
on, his eyes turned tauntingly.

Yes, Norton "got" him.  No man in the southwest harbored more bitter ill-will for the lawless
than Jim Galloway . . . unless the lawless stood in with him.  Aforetime many a hardy, tempestuous
spirit had defied the crime-dictator; here of late they were few who hoped to slit throats
or cut purses and not pay allegiance to the saloon-keeper of San Juan.

Upon the heels of this affair, however, came another which was destined to bring Roderick Norton
to a crisis in his life.  Word reached him at Las Flores that a lone prospector in the Red
Hills had been robbed of a baking-powder tin of dust and that the prospector, recovering from
the blows which had been rained on his head, had identified one of his two assailants.  That
one was Vidal Nuñez; circumstances hinted that the other well might be Kid Rickard.

Norton promptly instructed Tom Cutter to find out what he could of Rickard's movements upon
the day of the robbery, and himself set out to bring in Vidal Nuñez, taking a grim joy in his
task when he remembered how Nuñez had been the man who, with a glance, had cautioned Antone
to hold his tongue after the shooting of Bisbee at the Casa Blanca.

"Here's a man Jim Galloway won't thank me for rounding up," he told himself.  "And we are going
to see if his arm is long enough to keep Nuñez out of the penitentiary."

He went to San Juan, learned that nothing had been seen of the Mexican there, set the machinery
of the man hunt in full swing, doubled back through the settlements to the eastward, and for
two weeks got nothing but disappointment for his efforts.  Nuñez had disappeared and none who
cared to tell knew where.  But Norton kept on doggedly; confident that the man had not had
the opportunity to get out of the country, he was equally confident that, soon or late, he
would get him.  Then came the second meeting with Jim Galloway.

The two men rode into each other's view on the lonely trail half-way between San Juan and Tecolote,
which is to say where the little, barren hills break the monotony of the desert lands some
eight or ten miles to the eastward of San Juan.  It was late afternoon, and Galloway, riding
back toward town, had the sun in his eyes so that he could not have known as soon as did Norton
whom he was encountering.  But Galloway was not the man to ride anywhere that he was not ready
for whatever man he might meet; Norton's eyes, as the two drew nearer on the blistering trail,
marked the way Galloway's right hand rested loosely on the cantle of his saddle and very near
Galloway's right hip.

Norton, merely eying him sharply, was for passing on without a word or a nod.  The other, however,
jerked in his horse, clearly of a mind for parley.

"Well?" demanded Norton.

"I was just thinking," said Galloway dryly, "what an exceptionally fitting spot we've picked!
If I got you or you got me right now nobody in the world need ever know who did the trick.
We couldn't have found a much likelier place if we'd sailed away to an island in the South Seas."

"I was thinking something of the same kind," returned Norton coolly. "Have you any curiosity
in the matter?  If you think you can get your gun first . . . why, then, go to it!"

Galloway eased himself in the saddle.

"If I thought I could beat you to it," he answered tonelessly, "I'd do it.  As you know.  If
I even thought that I'd have an even break with you," he added, his eyes narrowing thoughtfully
as they took stock of the sheriff's right hand swinging free at his side and never far from
the butt of the revolver fitting loosely in his holster, "I'd take the chance.  No, you're
a shade too lively in the draw for me and I happen to know it."

For a little they sat staring into each other's eyes, the distance of ten steps between them,
their right hands idle while their left hands upon twitching reins curbed the impatience of
two mettled horses.  As was usual their regard was one of equal malevolence, of brimming, cold
hatred.  But slowly a new look came into Norton's eyes, a probing, penetrating look of calculation.
Galloway was again opening his lips when the sheriff spoke, saying with contemptuous lightness:

"Jim Galloway, you and I have bucked each other for a long time.  I guess it's in the cards
that one of us will get the other some day. Why not right now and end the whole damned thing?--When
I'm up against a man as I am against you I like to make it my business to know just how much
sand has filtered into his make-up.  You'd kill me if you had the chance and weren't afraid
to do it, wouldn't you?"

"If I had the chance," returned Galloway as coolly, though a spot of color showed under the
thick tan of his cheek.  "And I'll get it some day."

"If you've got the sand," said Norton, "you don't have to wait!"

"What do you mean?" snapped Galloway sharply.

Norton's answer lay in a gesture.  Always keeping such a rein on his horse that he faced Galloway
and kept him at his right, he lifted the hand which had been hanging close to his gun.  Slowly,
inch by inch, his eyes hard and watchful upon Galloway's eyes, he raised his hand. Understanding
leaped into Galloway's prominent eyes; it seemed that he had stopped breathing; surely the
hairy fingers upon the cantle of his saddle had separated a little, his hand growing to resemble
a tarantula preparing for its brief spring.

Steadily, slowly, the sheriff's hand rose in the air, brought upward and outward in an arc
as his arm was held stiff, as high as his shoulder now, now at last lifted high above his head.
And all of the time his eyes rested bright and hard and watchful upon Jim Galloway's, filled
at once with challenge and recklessness . . . and certainty of himself.

Galloway's right hand had stirred the slight fraction of an inch, his fingers were rigid and
still stood apart.  As he sat, twisted about in his saddle, his hand had about seven inches
to travel to find the gun in his hip pocket.  Since, when they first met, he had thrown his
big body to one side, his left boot loose in its stirrup while his weight rested upon his right
leg, his gun pocket was clear of the saddle, to be reached in a flash.

"You'll never get another chance like this, Galloway," said Norton crisply.  "I'd say, at a
guess, that my hand has about eight times as far to travel as yours.  You wanted an even break;
you've got more than that.  But you'll never get more than one shot.  Now, it's up to you."

"Before we start anything," began Galloway.  But Norton cut him short.

"I am not fool enough to hold my hand up like this until the blood runs out of my fingers.
You've got your chance; take it or leave it, but don't ask for half an hour's option on it."

Swift changing lights were in Galloway's eyes.  But his thoughts were not to be read.  That
he was tempted by his opportunity was clear; that he understood the full sense underlying the
words, "You'll never get more than one shot," was equally obvious.  That shot, if it were not
to be his last act in this world, must be the accurate result of one lightning gesture; his
hand must find his gun, close about the grip, draw, and fire with the one absolutely certain
movement.  For the look in Rod Norton's eyes was for any man to read.

Jim Galloway was not a coward and Rod Norton knew it.  He was essentially a gambler whose business
in life was to take chances.  But he was of that type of gambler who plays not for the love
of the game but to win; who sets a cool brain to study each hand before he lays his bet; who
gauges the strength of that hand not alone upon its intrinsic value but upon a shrewd guess
at the value of the cards out against it.

At that moment he wanted, more than he wanted anything else in the wide scope of his unleashed
desires, to kill Rod Norton; he balanced that fact with the other fact that less than anything
in the world did he want to be killed himself.  The issue was clear cut.

While a watch might have ticked ten times neither man moved.  During that brief time Galloway's
jaw muscles corded, his face went a little white with the strain put upon him.  The restive
horses, tossing their heads, making merry music with jingling bridle chains, might have galloped
a moment ago from an old book of fairy-tales, each carrying a man bewitched, turned to stone.

"If you've got the sand!" Norton taunted him, his blood running hot with the fierce wish to
have done with sidestepping and procrastination.  "If you've got the sand, Jim Galloway!"

"It's better than an even break that I could get you," said Galloway at last.  "And, at that,
it's an even break or nearly so, that as you slipped out of the saddle you'd get me, too. .
. .  You take the pot this time, Norton; I'm not betting."  Shifting his hand he laid it loosely
upon the horn of his saddle.  As he did so his chest inflated deeply to a long breath.

Norton's uplifted hand came down swiftly, his thumb catching in his belt.  There was a contemptuous
glitter in his eyes.

"After this," he said bluntly, "you'll always know and I'll always know that you are afraid.
I make it a part of my business not to under-estimate the man I go out to get; I think I have
overestimated you."

For a moment Galloway seemed not to have heard as he stared away through the gray distances.
When he brought his eyes back to Norton's they were speculative.

"Men like you and me ought to understand each other and not make any mistakes," he said, speaking
slowly.  "I have just begun to imagine lately that I have been doping you up wrong all the
time.  Now I've got two propositions to make you; you can take either or neither."

"It will probably be neither; what are they?  I've got a day's ride ahead of me."

"Maybe you have; maybe you haven't.  That depends on what you say to my proposition.  You're
looking for Vidal Nuñez, they tell me?"

"And I'm going to get him; as much as anything for the sake of swatting the devil around the
stump."

"Meaning me?" Galloway shrugged.  "Well, here's my song and dance: This county isn't quite
big enough; you drop your little job and clear out and leave me alone and I'll pay you ten
thousand dollars now and another ten thousand six months from now."

"Offer number one," said Norton, manifesting neither surprise nor interest even.  "Twenty thousand
dollars to pull my freight.  Well, Jim Galloway, you must have something on the line that pulls
like a big fish.  Now, let's have the other barrel."

"I have suggested that you clean out; the other suggestion is that, if you won't get out of
my way, you get busy on your job.  Vidal Nuñez will be at the Casa Blanca to-night.  I have
sent word for him to come in and that I'd look out for him.  Come, get him.  Which will you
take, Rod Norton?  Twenty thousand iron men or your chances at the Casa Blanca?"

It was Norton's turn to grow thoughtful.  Galloway was rolling a cigarette.  The sheriff reached
for his own tobacco and papers.  Only when he had set a match to the brown cylinder and drawn
the first of the smoke did he answer.

"You've said it all now, have you?" he demanded.

"Yes," said Galloway.  "It's up to you this time.  What's the word?"

Norton laughed.

"When I decide what I am going to do I always do it," he said lightly. "And as a rule I don't
do a lot of talking about it beforehand.  I'll leave you to guess the answer, Galloway."

Galloway shrugged and swung his horse back into the trail.

"So long," he said colorlessly.

"So long," Norton returned.

CHAPTER XI

THE FIGHT AT LA CASA BLANCA

It was something after six o'clock when Jim Galloway rode into San Juan.  Leaving his sweat-wet
horse in his own stable at the rear of the Casa Blanca he passed through the patio and into
a little room whose door he unlocked with a key from his pocket.  For ten minutes he sat before
a typewriting machine, one big forefinger slowly picking out the letters of a brief note. 
The address, also typed, bore the name of a town below the border.  Without signing his communication
he sealed it into its envelope and, relocking the door as he went out, walked thoughtfully
down the street to the post-office.

As he passed Struve's hotel he lifted his hat; upon the veranda at the cooler, shaded end,
Virginia was entertaining Florence Engle.  Florrie nodded brightly to Galloway, turning quickly
to Virginia as the big man went on.

"Do you actually believe, Virginia dear," she whispered, "that that man is as wicked as they
say he is?  Did you watch him going by?  Did you see the way he took off his hat?  Did you
ever know a man to smile quite as he does?"

"I don't believe," returned Virginia, "that I ever had him smile at me, Florrie."

"His eyes are not bad eyes, are they?" Florrie ran on.  "Oh, I know what papa thinks and what
Rod thinks about him; but I just don't believe it!  How could a man be the sort they say he
is and still be as pleasant and agreeable and downright good-looking as Mr. Galloway? Why,"
and she achieved a quick little shudder, "if I had done all the terrible deeds they accuse
him of I'd go around looking as black as a cloud all the time, savage and glum and remembering
every minute how wicked I was."

Virginia laughed, failing to picture Florrie grown murderous.  But Florrie merely pursed her
lips as her eyes followed Galloway down the street.

"I just ask you, Virginia Page," she said at last, sinking back into the wide arms of her chair
with a sigh, "if a man with murder and all kinds of sin on his soul could make love prettily?"

Virginia started.

"You don't mean . . ." she began quickly.

Florrie laughed, but the other girl noted wonderingly a fresher tint of color in her cool cheeks.

"Goosey!"  Florrie tossed her head, drew her skirts down modestly over her white-stockinged
ankles and laughed again.  "He never held my hand and all that.  But with his eyes.  Is there
any law against a man saying nice things with his eyes?  And how is a girl going to stop him?"

Virginia might have replied that here was a matter which depended very largely upon the girl
herself; but instead, estimating that there was little serious love-making on Galloway's part
to be apprehended and taking Florrie as lightly as Florrie took the rest of the world, she
was merely further amused.  And already she had learned to welcome amusement of any sort in
San Juan town.

But again here was Galloway, stopping now in front of Struve's, drawing another quick, bright
smile from the banker's daughter, accepting its invitation and coming into the little yard
and down the veranda.  Only when he fairly towered over the two girls did he push back the
hat which already he had touched to them, standing with his hands on his hips, his heavy features
bespeaking a deep inward serenity and quiet good humor.

It would have required a blinder man than Jim Galloway not to have marked the cool dislike
and distrust in Virginia's eyes.  But, though he turned from them to the pink-and-white girl
at her side, he gave no sign of sensing that he was in any way unwelcome here.

He had greeted Virginia casually; she, observing him keenly, understood what Florrie had meant
by a man's making love with his eyes.  His look, directed downward into the face smiling up
at him, was alive with what was obviously a very genuine admiration.  While Florrie allowed
her flattered soul to drink deep and thirstily of the wine of adulation Virginia, only half
understanding the writing in Galloway's eyes, shivered a little and, leaning forward suddenly,
put her hand on Florrie's arm; the gesture, quick and spontaneous, meant nothing to Florrie,
nothing to Galloway, and a very great deal to Virginia Page. For it was essentially protective;
it served to emphasize in her own mind a fear which until now had been a mere formless mist,
a fear for her frivolous little friend.  Galloway's whole being was so expressive of conscious
power, Florrie's of vacillating impulsiveness, that it required no considerable burden laid
upon the imagination to picture the girl coming if he called . . . if he called with the look
in his eyes now, with the tone he knew to put into his voice.

Social lines are none too clearly drawn in towns like San Juan; often enough they have long
ago failed to exist.  A John Engle, though six days of the seven he sat behind his desk in
a bank, was only a man, his daughter only the daughter of a mere man; a Jim Galloway, though
he owned the Casa Blanca and upon occasion stood behind his own bar, might be a man and look
with level eyes upon all other men, their wives, and their daughters.  Here, with conditions
what they always had been, there could stand but one barrier between Galloway and Florrie Engle,
the barrier of character.  And already the girl had cried: "His eyes are not bad eyes, are
they?"  A barrier is a silent command to pause; what is the spontaneous answer of a spoiled
child to any command?

Galloway spoke lightly of this and that, managing in a dozen little ways to compliment Florrie
who chattered with a gayety which partook of excitement.  In ten minutes he went his way, drawing
her musing eyes after him.  Until he had reached his own door and turned it at the Casa Blanca
the two girls on Struve's veranda were silent.  Florrie's thoughts were flitting hither and
yon, bright-winged, inconsequential, fluttering about Jim Galloway, deserting him for Roderick
Norton, darting off to Elmer Page, coming home to Florrie herself.  As for Virginia, conscious
of a sort of dread, she was oppressed with the stubbornly insistent thought that if Jim Galloway
cared to amuse himself with Florrie he was strong and she was weak; if he called to her she
would follow. . . .

Virginia was not the only one whom Galloway had set pondering; certain of his words spoken
to the sheriff when the two faced each other on the Tecolote trail gave Norton food for thought.
For the first time Jim Galloway had openly offered a bribe, one of no insignificant proportions,
prefacing his offer with the remark: "I have just begun to imagine lately that I have doped
you up wrong all the time."  If Galloway had gone on to add: "Time was when I didn't believe
I could buy you, but I have changed my mind about that," his meaning could have been no plainer.
Now he held out a bribe in one hand, a threat in the other, and Norton riding on to Tecolote
mused long over them both.

In Tecolote, a straggling village of many dogs and swarthy, grimy-faced children, he tarried
until well after dark, making his meal of coffee, frijoles, and chili con carne, thereafter
smoking a contemplative pipe.  Abandoning the little lunch-room to the flies and silence he
crossed the road to the saloon kept by Pete Nuñez, the brother of the man whom it was Norton's
present business to make answer for a crime committed.  Pete, a law-abiding citizen nowadays,
principally for the reason that he had lost a leg in his younger, gayer days, swept up his
crutch and swung across the room from the table where he was sitting to the bar, saying a careless
"Que hay?" by way of greeting.

"Hello, Pete," Norton returned quietly.  "Haven't seen Vidal lately, have you?"

Besides Vidal's brother there were a half dozen men in the room playing cards or merely idling
in the yellow light of the kerosene lamp swung from the ceiling, men of the saloon-keeper's
breed to the last man of them.  Their eyes, the slumbrous, mystery-filled orbs of their kind,
had lifted under their long lashes to regard the sheriff with seeming indifference.  Pete shrugged.

"Me, I ain't seen Vidal for a mont'," he answered briefly.  "I see Jim Galloway though.  Galloway
say," and Pete ran his towel idly back and forth along the bar, "Vidal come to la Casa Blanca
to-night.  I dunno," and again he shrugged.

Norton allowed himself the luxury of a mystifying smile as Pete Nuñez lifted probing eyes to
his face.

"Jim Galloway has been known to lie before now, like other men," was all of the information
he gave to the questioning look.  "And," his face suddenly as expressionless as Pete's own,
"it wouldn't be a bad bet to look for Vidal in Tres Robles, would it?  Eh, Pete?"

With that he went out.  Quite willing that Pete and his crowd should think what they pleased,
Tres Robles lay twenty miles northeast of Tecolote, and if Pete cared to send word to Galloway
that the sheriff had ridden on that way, well and good.

Half an hour later, with the deeper dark of the night settling thick and sultry over the surface
of the desert lands, he rode out of town following the Tres Robles trail.  He knew that Pete
had come to his door and was watching; he had the vague suspicion that it was quite possible
that Vidal was watching, too, with eyes smouldering with hatred.  That was only a guess, not
even for a man to hazard a bet upon.  But the feeling that the fugitive was somewhere in Tecolote
or in the mesquite thickets near abouts had been strong enough to send him travelling this
way in the afternoon, would have been strong enough for him to have acted upon, searching through
shack after shack, were it not that deep down in his heart he did not believe that Jim Galloway
had lied.  Here, while he came in at one door Vidal might slip out at another, safe among friends.
But in the Casa Blanca Norton meant that matters should be different.

For an hour he rode toward the northeast.  Then, turning out of the trail and reining his horse
into the utter blackness offered by the narrow mouth or an arroyo, he sat still for a long
time, listening, staring back through the night toward Tecolote.  At last, confident that he
had not been followed, he cut across the low-lying lomas marking the western horizon and in
a swinging gallop rode straight toward San Juan.

He had had ample time for the shaping of his simple plans long before catching the first winking
glimpse of the lights of the Casa Blanca. He left his horse under the cottonwoods, hung his
spurs over the horn of the saddle, and went silently to the back of Struve's hotel. Certain
that no one had seen him, he half-circled the building, came to the window which he had counted
upon finding open, slipped in, and passed down the hall to Struve's room.  At his light tap
Struve called, "Come in," and turned toward him as the door opened.  Norton closed it behind him.

"I am taking a chance that Vidal Nuñez is at Galloway's right now," he told the hotel keeper.
"I am going to get him if he is.  I want you to watch the back end of the Casa Blanca and see
that he doesn't slip out that way.  A shotgun is what you want.  Blow the head off any man
who doesn't stop when you tell him to.  Is Tom Cutter in his room yet?"

While Struve, wasting neither time nor words, went to see, Norton unbuttoned his shirt, removed
the thirty-eight-caliber revolver from the holster slung under his left arm, whirled the cylinder,
and kept the gun in his left hand.  In a moment Struve had returned, the deputy at his heels.

"What's this about Vidal being here?" Cutter asked sharply.

Norton explained briefly and as briefly gave Tom Cutter his orders. While Struve mounted guard
at the rear, Cutter was to look out for the front of the building.

"Going in alone, are you, Rod?"  Cutter shook his head.  "If Vidal is in there, and Galloway
and the Kid and Antone are all on the job, the chances are there's going to be something happen.
Better let me come in along with you."

But Norton, his mouth grown set and grim and chary of words, shook his head.  Followed by Struve
and Cutter he was outside in the darkness five minutes after he had entered the hotel.

Struve, a shotgun in his hands, took his place twenty steps from the back door of the Casa
Blanca, his restless eyes sweeping back and forth continually, taking stock of door and window;
a lamp burning in a rear room cast its light out through a window whose shade was less than
half drawn.  Tom Cutter, accustomed to acting swiftly upon his superior's suggestions, listened
wordlessly to the few whispered instructions, nodded, and did as he was told, effacing himself
in the shadows at the corner of the building, prepared when the time came to spring out into
the street whence he could command the front and one side of the Casa Blanca.  Norton, before
leaving Cutter, had drawn the heavy gun from the holster swinging at his belt.

"It's some time since we've had any two-handed shooting to do, Tommy," he said as his lean
fingers curved to the familiar grip of the Colt 45. "But I guess we haven't forgotten how.
Now, stick tight until you hear things wake up."

He was gone, turning back to the rear of the house, passing close to Struve, going on to the
northeast corner, slipping quietly about it, moving like a shadow along the eastern wall. 
Here were two windows, both looking into the long barroom, both with their shades drawn down tight.

At the first window Norton paused, listening.  From within came a man's voice, the Kid's, in
his ugly snarl of a laugh, evil and reckless and defiant, that and the clink of a bottle-neck
against a glass.  Norton, his body pressed against the wall, stood still, waiting for other
voices, for Galloway's, for Vidal Nuñez's.  But after Kid Rickard's jarring mirth it was strangely
still in the Casa Blanca; no noise of clicking chips bespeaking a poker game, no loud-voiced
babble, no sound of a man walking across the bare floor.

"They're waiting for me," was Norton's quick thought.  "Galloway knew I'd come."

He passed on, came to the second window and paused again.  The brief, almost breathless silence
within, which had followed the Kid's laugh, had already been dissipated by the customary Casa
Blanca sounds; a guitar was strumming, chips clicked, a bottle was set heavily upon the bar,
a chair scraped.  Norton frowned; a moment ago something happened in there to still men's tongues.
What was it?  It was Galloway who gave him his answer.

"So you came, did you, Vidal?"  There was a jeer in the heavy voice. "Scared to come, eh? 
And scared worse to stay away!"  Galloway's short laugh was as unpleasant as ever Rickard's
had been.

"Si; I am here," the voice of Vidal Nuñez was answering, quick, eager, sibilant with its unmistakable
nervous excitement.  "Pete tell me what you say an' I come."  He lifted his voice abruptly,
breaking into a soft Southern oath.  "Like a cat, to jump through the little window an' roll
on the floor an' by God, jus' in time.  There is one man at the back with a gun an' one man
in front an' another man . . ."

"Let 'em come," cried Galloway loudly, a heavy hand smiting a table top so that a glass jumped
and fell breaking to the floor.  "Only," and he sent his voice booming out warningly, "any
man who chips in unasked and starts trouble in my house can take what's coming to him."

So then Vidal had just arrived, it had been his sudden entrance which had invoked the silence
in the barroom.  Norton merely shrugged; there had been a chance of taking Vidal alone, intercepting
him.  But that chance had not been one to wait for; now it was past, negligible, not to be
regretted.  At last he knew where Vidal Nuñez was and it was his business to make an arrest
and not to wait upon further chance.  The man who is not ready to go into a crowd to get his
law-breaker is not the man to stand for sheriff in the southwest country.

"Coming, Galloway!" Norton's ringing shout came back in answer. Suddenly the steady pulse of
his blood had been stirred, the hot hope stood high in his heart again that he and Jim Galloway
were going to look into each other's eyes with guns talking and an end of a long devious trail
in sight.  For the moment he half forgot Vidal Nuñez whom he could fancy cowering in a corner.

Then when he knew that every man in the Casa Blanca had turned sharply at his voice he ran
from the window to the street, turned the corner of the building and in at the wide front doorway.
A short hall, a closed door confronting him . . . then that had been flung open and on its
threshold, a gun in each hand, his hat far back on his head, his eyes on fire, he stood looking
in on a half dozen men and three glinting steel barrels which, describing quick arcs, were
whipped from the window toward him.  A gun in Galloway's hand, one in the hand of Vidal Nuñez,
the third already spitting fire as Kid Rickard's narrowed eyes shone above it.  The other men
had fallen back precipitately to right and left; Norton noted that Elmer Page was among them,
a pace or two from Rickard's side.

The Kid, being young, had something of youth's impatience, perhaps the only reminiscence of
youth left in a calloused soul.  So it was that he had shot a second too soon.  Norton, as
both hands rose in front of him, answered Kid Rickard with the smaller-caliber gun while the
Colt in his right hand was concerned impartially with Galloway and Vidal Nuñez, standing close
together.  The Kid cursed, his voice rose in a shriek of anger rather than pain, and he spun
about and fell backward, tripping over an overturned chair.

"Shoot, Galloway!" cried Norton.  "Shoot, damn you, shoot!"

Now, as for the second time that day the two men confronted each other, naked, hot hatred glaring
out of their eyes, each man knew that he stood balancing a crucial second, midway between death
and triumph. Jim Galloway, who never until now had come out into the open in defiance of the
law, must swallow his words under the eyes of his own gang, or once and for all forsake the
semi-security behind his ambush. Again issues were clear cut.

He answered the sheriff with a curse and a stream of lead.  As he fired he threw himself to
the side, the old trick, his gun little higher than his hip, and fired again.  And shot for
shot Norton answered him.

Though but half the length of a room lay between them, as yet, neither man was hurt.  For no
longer were they in the rich light of the swinging coal-oil lamp; the room was gathered in
pitch darkness; their guns spat long tongues of vivid flame.  For, just as Kid Ricard was falling,
while Jim Galloway's finger was crooked to the trigger, while Antone was whipping up his gun
behind the bar, there had come a shot from the card-room door shattering the lamp.  Neither
Norton nor Galloway, Rickard nor Vidal Nuñez, nor Antone nor any of the other men in the room
saw who had fired the shot.

As the light went out Norton leaped away from the door, having little wish to stand silhouetted
against the rectangle of pale light from the outer night; and, leaping, he poured in his fourth
and fifth and sixth shots in the quarter where he hoped to find Galloway.  But always he remembered
where he had seen Elmer Page standing, and always he remembered Antone behind the bar, and
Vidal Nuñez drawn back into a corner.  His forty-five emptied, he jammed it back into its holster
and stood rigid, staring into the blackness about him, every sense on the qui vive.  Galloway
had given over shooting; he might be dead or merely waiting.  Vidal had held his fire, seeming
frightened, uncertain, half stunned.  Antone would be leaning forward, peering with frowning
eyes, trying to locate him.

It swept into Norton's mind suddenly that thus, in utter and unexpected darkness, he had the
upper hand.  He could shoot, the law riding upon each flying pellet of lead, and be it Jim
Galloway or Antone or Vidal, or any other of Galloway's crowd who fell, it would be a man who
richly deserved what his fate was bringing him.  They, on the other hand, being many against
one, must be careful which way they shot.

He had come for Vidal Nuñez.  The man he wanted was yonder, but a few feet from him.  Duty
and desire pointed across the room to the obscure corner.  He moved a cautious foot.  The floor
complained under his shifting weight and from Galloway's quarter came a spit of fire.  Twin
with it came a shot from behind the bar.  That was Antone talking.  And now at last came the
other shot from Vidal himself.

Rod Norton's was that type of man which finds caution less to his liking than headlong action;
furthermore, in the present crisis, caution had seemed the acme of foolhardiness.  There are
times when true wisdom lies in taking one's chance boldly, flying half-way to meet it.  Now,
as three bullets sang by him, he gathered himself; then, before the sharp reports had died
in his ears, he sprang forward, hurling himself across the room, striking with his lifted gun
as he went, missing, striking again and experiencing that grinding, crunching sensation transmitted
along the metal barrel as it struck a man fair upon the head.  The man went down heavily and
Norton stood over him, praying that it was Vidal Nuñez.

Then it was that Julius Struve, having deserted his post at the rear, smashed through a window
with the muzzle of his shotgun, sending the shade flipping up, springing back from the square
of faint light as he cried out sharply:

"All right, Nort?"

"All right!" cried Norton.  "I'm against the north wall; rake the other side and the bar with
your shotgun if they don't step out.  You and Cutter together.  I've got Rickard and Nuñez
out of it.  Drop your gun, Galloway; lively, while you've got the chance.  Antone, Struve's
got a shotgun!"

Antone cursed, and with the snarl of his voice came the clatter of a revolver slammed down
on the bar.  Galloway cursed and fired, emptying his second gun, crazed with hatred and blind
anger.  Again, shot for shot Norton answered him.  And again it grew very silent in the Casa
Blanca.

"Out through the window, one by one, with your hands up and your guns down," shouted Struve;
"or I start in.  Which is it, boys?"

There was a scramble to obey, the several men who had taken no part leading the way.  As they
went out their forms were for a moment clearly outlined, then swallowed up in the outer darkness.
At Struve's command they lined up against the wall, watched over by the muzzle of his shotgun.
Antone, crying out that he was coming, followed.  Elmer Page, sick and dizzy, was at Antone's
heels.

Tom Cutter had gathered up some dry grass, and with that and a chance-found bit of wood started
a blaze near the second window; in its wavering, uncertain light the faces of the men stood
out whitely. 

"Well, mother, you make nets to some purpose, for you've always a
fish when it's wanted."

I despatched my breakfast, and as soon as all had been cleared away
by his wife, old Tom, crossing his two timber legs, commenced business,
for it appeared, what I was not aware of, that we had met on a sort
of council-of-war.

"Jacob, sit down by me; old woman, bring yourself to an anchor in
the high chair.

Tom, sit anywhere, so you sit still."

"And leave my net alone, Tom," cried his mother, in parenthesis.--"You
see, Jacob, the whole long and short of it is this--I feel my toes
more and more, and flannel's no longer warm.

I can't tide it any longer, and I think it high time to lie up in
ordinary and moor abreast of the old woman.

Now, there's Tom, in the first place, what's to do with he?

I think that I'll build him a wherry, and as I'm free of the river
he can finish his apprenticeship with my name on the boat; but to
build him a wherry would be rather a heavy pull for me."

"If you mean to build it yourself, I think it will prove a heavy pull
for me," replied Tom.

"Silence, Tom; I built you, and God knows you're light enough."

"And, Tom, leave my net alone," cried his mother.

"Father made me light-fingered, mother."

"Ay, and light-hearted too, boy," rejoined the dame, looking fondly
at her son.

"Well," continued old Tom, "supposing that Tom be provided for in that
way; then now I comes to myself. I've an idea that I can do a good
bit of work in patching up boats; for you see I always was a bit
of a carpenter, and I know how the builders extortionate the poor
watermen when there's a trifle amiss.

Now, if they knew I could do it, they'd all come to me fast enough;
but then there's a puzzle.

I've been thinking this week how I can make them know it.

I can't put out a board and say, Beazeley, Boat-builder, because I'm
no boatbuilder, but still I want a sign."

"Lord, father, haven't you got one already?" interrupted young Tom;
"you've half a boat stuck up there, and that means that you're half
a boat-builder."

"Silence, Tom, with your frippery; what do you think. Jacob?"

"Could you not say, `Boats repaired here?'"

"Yes, but that won't exactly do; they like to employ a builder--and
there's the puzzle."

"Not half so puzzling as this net," observed Tom, who had taken up the
needle, unseen by his mother, and begun to work; "I've made only
ten stitches, and six of them are long ones."

"Tom, Tom,
you good-for-nothing--why don't you let my net alone?" cried Mrs
Beazeley; "now 'twill take me as much time to undo ten stitches as
to have made fifty."

"All right, mother."

"No, Tom, all's wrong; look at these meshes?"

"Well, then, all's fair, mother."

"No, all's foul, boy; look how it's tangled."

"Still, I say, all's fair, mother, for it is but fair to give the
fish one or two chances to get away, and that's just what I've done;
and now, father, I'll settle your affair to your own satisfaction,
as I have mother's."

"That will be queer satisfaction, Tom, I guess; but let's hear what you have to say."

"Then, father, it seems that you're no boat-builder, but you want people
to fancy that you are--a'n't that the question?"

"Why, 'tis something like it, Tom, but I do nobody no harm."

"Certainly not; it's only the boats which will suffer.

Now, get a large board, with `Boats built to order, and boats repaired,
by Tom Beazeley.' You know if any man is fool enough to order a boat,
that's his concern; you didn't say you're a boat-builder, although
you have no objection to try your hand."

"What do you say Jacob?" said old Tom, appealing to me.

"I think that Tom has given very good advice, and I would follow it."

"Ah!
Tom has a head," said Mrs Beazeley, fondly.

"Tom, let go my net again, will you?

What a boy you are!

Now touch it again if you dare," and Mrs Beazeley took up a little
poker from the fire-place and shook it at him.

"Tom has a head, indeed," said young Tom, "but as he has no wish to
have it broken, Jacob, lend me your wherry for half-an-hour, and I'll
be off."

I
assented, and Tom, first tossing the cat upon his mother's back, made his escape, crying:

"Lord, Molly, what a fish--"

as the animal fixed in its claws to save herself from falling, making
Mrs Beazeley roar out and vow vengeance, while old Tom and I could
not refrain from laughter.

After Tom's departure the conversation was renewed, and everything
was finally arranged between old Tom and his wife, except the building
of the wherry, at which the old woman shook her head.

The debate would be too long, and not sufficiently interesting to
detail; one part, however, I must make the reader acquainted with.

After entering into all the arrangements of the house, Mrs Beazeley
took me upstairs to show me the rooms, which were very neat and clean.

I came down with her, and old Tom said, "Did the old woman show you
the room with the white curtains, Jacob?"

"Yes," replied I, "and a very nice one it is."

"Well, Jacob, there's nothing sure in this world. You're well off
at present, and `leave well alone' is a good motto; but recollect this,
that room is for you when you want it, and everything else we can
share with you.

It's offered freely, and you will accept it the same. Is it not, old lady?"

"Yes, that it is, Jacob; but may you do better--if not, I'll be your
mother for want of a better."

I was moved with the kindness of the old couple; the more
so as I did not know what I had done to deserve it. Old Tom gave me
a hearty squeeze of the hand, and then continued--"But about this
wherry--what do you say, old woman?"

"What will it cost?" replied she, gravely.

"Cost; let me see--a good wherry, with sculls and oars, will be a
matter of thirty pounds."

The old woman screwed up her mouth, shook her head, and then walked
away to prepare for dinner.

"I think
she could muster the blunt, Jacob, but she don't like to part with
it. Tom must coax her.

I wish he hadn't shied the cat at her. He's too full of fun."

As old Beazeley finished, I perceived a wherry pulling in with some
ladies.

I looked attentively, and recognised my own boat, and Tom pulling.

In a minute more they were at the hard, and who, to my astonishment, were
there seated, but Mrs Drummond and Sarah.

As Tom got out of the boat and held it steady against the hard, he
called to me; I could not do otherwise than go and assist them out;
and once more did I touch the hands of those whom I never thought
to meet again.

Mrs Drummond retained my hand a short time after she landed, saying, "We are friends, Jacob, are
we not!"

"Oh, yes, madam," replied I, much moved, in a faltering voice.

"I shall not ask that question," said Sarah, gaily, "for we parted friends."

And
as I recalled to mind her affectionate behaviour, I pressed her hand,
and the tears glistened in my eyes as I looked into her sweet face.

As I afterwards discovered,
this was an arranged plan with old and young Tom, to bring about
a meeting without my knowledge.

Mrs Beazeley courtesied and stroked her apron--smiled at the ladies,
looked very cat-ish at Tom, showed the ladies into the house, where
old Tom assisted to do the honours after his own fashion, by asking
Mrs Drummond if she would like to whet her whistle after her pull.

Mrs Drummond looked round to me
for explanation, but young Tom thought proper to be interpreter.

"Father wants to know, if you please, ma'am, whether, after your pull
in the boat, you wouldn't like to have a pull at the brandy bottle?"

"No," replied Mrs Drummond, smiling; "but I should be obliged for
a glass of water.

Will you get me
one, Jacob?"

I hastened to comply, and Mrs Drummond entered into conversation with
Mrs Beazeley.

Sarah looked at me, and went to the door, turning back as inviting
me to follow.

I did
so, and we soon found ourselves seated on the bench in the old boat.

"Jacob,"
said she, looking earnestly at me, "you surely will be friends with
my father?"

I think I should have shaken my head, but she laid an emphasis on my,
which the little gipsy knew would have its effect. All my resolutions,
all my pride, all my sense of injury vanished before the mild, beautiful
eyes of Sarah, and I replied hastily, "Yes, Miss Sarah, I can refuse
you nothing."

"Why Miss, Jacob?"

"I am a waterman, and you are much above me."

"That is your own fault; but say no more about it."

"I must say something more, which is this: do not attempt to make
me leave my present employment; I am happy, because I am independent;
and that I will, if possible, be for the future."

"Any one can pull an oar, Jacob."

"Very true, Miss Sarah, and is under no obligation to any one by so
earning his livelihood.

He works for all and is paid for all."

"Will you come and see us, Jacob? Come to-morrow--now do--promise me.
Will you refuse your old playmate, Jacob?"

"I wish you would not ask that."

"How then can you say that you are friends with my father? I will not
believe you unless you promise to come."

"Sarah," replied I, earnestly, "I will come; and to prove to you that
we are friends, I will ask a favour of him."

"Oh, Jacob, this is kind indeed," cried Sarah, with her eyes swimming with
tears.

"You have made me so--so very happy!"

The meeting with Sarah humanised me, and every feeling of revenge
was chased from my memory.

Mrs Drummond joined us soon after, and
proposed to return. "And Jacob will pull us back," cried Sarah. "Come,
sir, look after your fare, in both senses.

Since you
will be a waterman, you shall work." I laughed and handed them to
the boat.

Tom
took the other oar, and we were soon at the steps close to their house.

"Mamma,
we ought to give these poor fellows something to drink; they've worked
very hard," said Sarah, mocking. "Come up, my good men." I hesitated.
"Nay, Jacob, if tomorrow why not to-day? The sooner these things are
over the better."

I felt the truth of this observation, and followed her. In a few minutes
I was again in that parlour in which I had been dismissed, and in
which the affectionate girl burst into tears on my shoulder, as I
held the handle of the door. I looked at it, and looked at Sarah.
Mrs Drummond had gone out of the room to let Mr Drummond know that
I had come.

"How kind you were,
Sarah!" said I.

"Yes, but kind people are cross sometimes, and so am I--and so was--"

Mr Drummond came in, and stopped her.

"Jacob,
I am glad to see you again in my house; I was deceived by appearances,
and did you injustice."

How true is the observation of the wise man, that a soft word turneth
away wrath; that Mr Drummond should personally acknowledge that he
was wrong to me--that he should confess it--every feeling of resentment
was gone, and others crowded in their place.

I recollected
how he had protected the orphan--how he had provided him with instruction--how
he had made his house a home to me--how he had tried to bring me forward
under his own protection I recollected--which, alas!

I never should have forgotten--that he had treated me for
years with kindness and affection, all of which had been obliterated
from my memory by one single act of injustice. I felt that I was
a culprit, and burst into tears; and Sarah, as before, cried in sympathy.

"I
beg your pardon, Mr Drummond," said I, as soon as I could speak;
"I have been very wrong in being so revengeful after so much kindness
from you."

"We both have been wrong--but say no more on the subject, Jacob; I have
an order to give, and then I will come up to you again;" and Mr Drummond
quitted the room.

"You dear, good boy," said Sarah, coming up to me.

"Now, I really do love
you."

What I might have replied was put a stop to by Mrs Drummond entering
the room.

She made a few inquiries about where I at present resided, and Sarah
was catechising me rather inquisitively about Mary Stapleton, when
Mr Drummond re-entered the room, and shook me by the hand with a warmth
which made me more ashamed of my conduct towards him.

The
conversation became general, but still rather embarrassed, when Sarah
whispered to me "What is the favour you would ask of my father?" I had
forgotten it at the moment, but I immediately told him that I would
be obliged if he would allow me to have a part of the money belonging
to me which he held in his possession.

"That I will,
with pleasure, and without asking what you intend to do with it, Jacob.
How much do you require?"

"Thirty pounds, if there is so much."

Mr Drummond went down, and in a few minutes returned with the sum in notes
and guineas.

I thanked him, and shortly afterwards
took my leave.

"Did not young Beazeley tell you I had something for you, Jacob?"
said Sarah, as I wished her good-bye.

"Yes; what is it?"

"You must come and see," replied Sarah, laughing.

Thus was a finale to all my revenge brought about by a little
girl of fifteen years old, with large dark eyes.

Tom had taken his glass of grog below,
and was waiting for me at the steps. We shoved off, and returned to
his father's house, where dinner was just ready. After dinner old Tom
recommenced the argument; "The only hitch," says he, "is about the wherry.
What do you say, old woman?" The old woman shook her head.

"As that is the only hitch," said I, "I can remove it, for here is the
money for the wherry, which I make a present to Tom," and I put the
money into young Tom's hand. Tom counted it out before his father
and mother, much to their astonishment.

"You are a good fellow, Jacob," said Tom; "but I say, do you recollect
Wimbledon Common?"

"What then?" replied I.

"Only Jerry Abershaw,
that's all."

"Do not be afraid, Tom, it is honestly mine."

"But
how did you get it, Jacob," said old Tom.

It may appear strange,
but, impelled by a wish to serve my friends, I had asked for the money
which I knew belonged to me, but never thought of the manner in which
it had been obtained. The question of old Tom recalled everything
to my memory, and I shuddered when I recollected the circumstances
attending it. I was confused, and did not like to reply. "Be satisfied,
the money is mine," replied I.

"Yes, Jacob, but how?" replied Mrs
Beazeley; "surely you ought to be able to tell how you got so large
a sum."

"Jacob has some reason for not telling, missus, depend upon
it; mayhap Mr Turnbull, or whoever gave it to him, told him to hold
his tongue." But this answer would not satisfy Mrs Beazeley, who declared
she would not allow a farthing to be taken unless she knew how it
was obtained.

"Tom, give back the money directly," said she, looking
at me suspiciously.

Tom laid it on the table before me, without saying
a word.

"Take it, Tom," said I, colouring up. "I had it from my mother."

"From
your mother, Jacob!" said old Tom. "Nay, that could not well be, if
my memory sarves me right. Still it may be."

"Deary me, I don't like
this at all," cried Mrs Beazeley, getting up, and wiping her apron
with a quick motion. "Oh, Jacob, that must be--not the truth."

I
coloured up to the tips of my ears at being suspected of falsehood.
I looked round, and saw that even Tom and his father had a melancholy
doubt in their countenances; and certainly my confused appearance
would have caused suspicion in anybody. "I little thought," said I,
at last, "when I hoped to have so much pleasure in giving, and to
find that I had made you happy in receiving the money, that it would
have proved a source of so much annoyance. I perceive that I am suspected
of having obtained it improperly, and of not having told the truth.
That Mrs Beazeley may think so, who does not know me, is not to be
wondered at; but that you," continued I, turning to old Tom, "or you,"
looking at his son, "should suspect me, is very mortifying; and I
did not expect it.  It seemed the wisest step, the one
which Norton would have taken.  Besides, Galloway insisted upon it and upon being allowed to
send a message to his lawyer.

"I am willing to stand trial," said Galloway indifferently.  "I'll arrange for bail to-morrow
and be back to-morrow night."

The question which Tom Cutter, Struve, and Engle all asked of themselves and of each other,
"Did Moraga get his chance to talk with Galloway?" went unanswered.  There was nothing to do
but wait upon the future to know that, unless Moraga, now on his way back to Sheriff Roberts,
could be made to talk.  And Moraga was not given to garrulity.

Meantime Patten brought hourly reports of Norton.  He was still in danger, to be sure; but
he was doing as well as could be expected.  No one must go into the room except Mrs. Engle
as nurse.  Norton was fully conscious, but forbidden to talk; he recognized those about him,
his eyes were clear, his temperature satisfactory, his strength no longer waning.  He had partaken
of a bit of nourishment and to-morrow, if there were no unlooked-for complications, would be
able to speak with John Engle for whom he had asked.

During the days which followed, days in which Rod Norton lay quiet in a darkened room, Virginia
Page was conscious of having awakened some form of interest in Caleb Patten.  His eyes followed
her when she came and went, and, when she surprised them, were withdrawn swiftly, but not before
she had seen in them a speculative thoughtfulness.  While she noted this she gave it little
thought, so occupied was her mind with other matters.  She had postponed, as long as she could,
a talk with Julius Struve, her spirit galled that she must in the end go to him "like a beggar,"
as she expressed it to herself.  But one day, her head erect, she followed the hotel keeper
into his office.  In the hallway she encountered Patten.

"May I have a word with you?" Patten asked.

But Virginia had steeled herself to the interview with Struve and would no longer set it aside,
even for a moment.

"If you care to wait on the veranda," she told Patten, "I'll be out in a minute.  I want to
see Mr. Struve now."

Patten stood aside and watched her pass, the shrewdly questioning look in his eyes.  When she
disappeared in the office he remained where she had left him, listening.  When she began to
speak with Struve, her voice rapid and hinting at nervousness, he came a quiet step nearer
the door she had closed after her.

"I am ashamed of myself, Mr. Struve," said Virginia, coming straight to the point.  "I owe
you already for a month's board and room rent for myself and Elmer.  I . . ."

"That's perfectly all right, Miss Virginia," said Struve hurriedly.  "I know the sort of job
you've got on your hands making collections.  If you can wait I am willing to do so.  Glad
to do so, in fact."

Patten, fingering his little mustache, then letting his thick fingers drop to the diamond in
his tie, smiled with satisfaction.  Smiling, he tiptoed down the hall and went out upon the
veranda where he smoked his cigar serenely.  When Virginia came out to him her face was flaming.
Had he not beard Struve's words, he would have thought that his answer to her apology had been
an angry demand for immediate payment.  Patten failed to understand how the girl's fine, independent
nature writhed in a situation all but intolerable.  That she appreciated gratefully Struve's
quick kindness did not minimize her own mortification.

Patten watched her seat herself; then he launched himself into his subject.  Virginia listened
at first with faint interest, then with quickened wonder.  For the life of her she could not
tell if the little man were seeking to flatter or insult her.

"I have leased an old, deserted ranch-house just on the edge of town," he told her.  "Got it
for a song, too.  Some first-rate land goes with it; I'll probably buy the whole thing before
long.  There's plenty of good water.  Now, what am I up to, eh?  Just the same thing all the
time, if you want to know.  And that means making money."

Leaning forward he knocked the ash from his cigar and brought himself confidentially nearer.

"An open-air sanatorium," he announced triumphantly.  "For tuberculosis patients.  There are
lots of them," and he waved his arm in a wide half circle, "coming out of the East on the run,
scared to death, and with more or less money in their pockets.  It's a big proposition, a sure
money-getter."

He grew more animated than she had ever dreamed he could be, as he sketched his plans.  While
she was wondering why he had come to her with them he gave his explanation, made her his double
offer.  Then it was that she was puzzled to know whether he meant to compliment her or merely
to insult her.

In a word he assured her from the heights of superiority to which he had ascended these last
few days of importance, the practice of medicine was no woman's work at best; certainly not
in a land like this, where a man's endurance, breadth or mind, and keener innate ability to
cope with big situations were indicated.  No work for a slip of a girl like Virginia Page.
Of that Caleb Patten assured her unhesitatingly.  But there was work for such as her and in
a place which he would create for her.  Fairly bewildered at his audacity she found herself
listening to his suggestion that she marry Caleb Patten and become a sort of head nurse in
an institution which he would found!

In spite of her she was moved to sudden, impulsive laughter.  She had not meant to laugh at
the man who might be sincere, who, it was possible, was merely a fool.  But laugh she did,
so that her mirth reached Rod Norton where he lay upon his bed and made him stir restlessly.

"What do you mean by that?" demanded Patten, a flush in his cheeks.

"I mean," stammered Virginia at last, "that I thank you very much, Dr. Patten, but that I can
avail myself of neither the opportunity of being your wife or your head nurse.  As for my inability
to do for myself what I have set out to accomplish . . . well, I am not afraid yet. There is
work to be done here and I don't quite agree with you that it's all man's work.  There's always
a little left over for a woman, you know," she added brightly.

But Patten was obviously angered.  He flung to his feet and glared down at her.  Perhaps it
had not entered his thought that she could make other than the answer he wanted; it had been
very clear to him that he was offering to become responsible for one who was embarked upon
a voyage already destined to failure, that he would support her, merely doing as many other
men of his ilk did and make her work for all that she got.

"It's silly nonsense, your thinking you can make a living here," he said irritably.  "I'm already
established, I'm a man, I can have all of the cases I want, you'll get only a few breeds who
haven't a dollar to the dozen of them.  If you are already broke and can't even pay for your
room and board . . ."

"Who told you that?" she asked quickly.

"I can hear, can't I?" he demanded coarsely.  "Didn't you go just now to beg Struve to hold
you over?  And . . ."

She slipped out of her chair and stood a moment staring coldly and contemptuously at him. 
Then she was gone, leaving Patten watching her departure incredulously.

"A man who hasn't any more sense than Caleb Patten," she cried within herself, "has no business
with a physician's license.  It's a sheer wonder he didn't kill Roderick Norton!"

Already she had forgotten her words with Struve, or rather the matter for the present was shoved
aside in her mind by another.  She had come here to make good, she had her fight before her,
and she was going to make good.  She had to . . . for herself, for her own pride, for Elmer's
sake.  She went straight to Elmer and made him sit down and listen while she sketched actual
conditions briefly and emphatically.

He was old enough to do something for himself in the world, continued idleness did him no earthly
good and might do him no end of harm morally, mentally, and physically.  He had been her baby
brother long enough; it was time that he became a man.  She had supported him until now, asking
nothing of him in return save that he kept out of mischief a certain percentage of the time.
Now he was going to work and help out.  He could go to John Engle and get something to do upon
one of Engle's ranches.

Somewhat to her surprise Elmer responded eagerly.  He had been thinking the matter over and
it appealed to him.  What he did not tell her was that he had seen some of the vaqueros riding
in from one of the outlying ranges, lean, brown, quick-eyed men who bestrode high-headed mounts
and who wore spurs, wide hats, shaggy chaps, and who, perhaps, carried revolvers hidden away
in their hip pockets, men who drank freely, spent their money as freely at dice and cards,
and who, all in all, were a picturesque crowd.  Elmer took up his hat and went down to the
bank and had a talk with John Engle.  Virginia's eyes followed him hopefully.

That day Norton was allowed for the first time to receive callers.  He had his talk with Engle,
limited to five minutes by Patten who hung about curiously until Norton said pointedly that
he wanted to speak privately with the banker.  Later Florrie came with her mother, bringing
an immense armful of roses culled by her own hands, excited, earnest, entering the shaded room
like a frightened child, speaking only in hushed whispers.

"Won't you come in too for a moment, Virginia?" asked Mrs. Engle. "Roddy will be glad to see
you; he has asked about you."

But Virginia made an excuse; it was Patten's case and after what had occurred between herself
and Patten she had no intention of so much as seeming to overstep the professional lines. 
The following day, however, she did go to see him.  Patten himself, stiff and boorish, asked
her to.  His patient had asked for her several times, knowing that she was in the building
and marking how she made an exception and refused to look in on him while all of his other
friends were doing so, some of them coming many miles.  Patten told her that Norton was not
well by any means yet and that he did not intend to have him worried up over an imagined slight.
So Virginia did as she was bid.

Mrs. Engle was in the room, bending over the bed with a dampened towel to lay upon Norton's
forehead; he showed a sign of fever and his head ached constantly.  He looked about quickly
as the girl came in, his hand stirring a little, offering itself.  She took it by way of greeting
and sat down in the chair drawn up at his side.

"It's good of you to come!" he said quickly, his eyes brightening.  "I was beginning to wonder
if I had offended you in some way?  You see, everybody has run in but you.  A man gets spoiled
when he's laid up like this, doesn't he?  Especially when it's the first time he can remember
when he has stuck in bed for upward of twenty-four hours running."

Despite her familiarity with the swift ravages of illness she received a positive shock as
she looked at him; she had visualized him during these latter days as she had last seen him,
brown, vitally robust, the embodiment of lean, clean strength.  Now sunless inaction had set
its mark in his skin which had already grown sallow; his eyes burned into her own, his hand
fell weakly to the coverlet as she removed her own, his fingers plucking nervously.  And yet
she summoned a cheerful smile to answer his.

"I was satisfied just in hearing that you were doing well," she said. "And I know that the
fewer people a sick man sees the better for him."

He moved his head restlessly back and forth on his pillow.

"Not for a man like me," he told her.  "I'm not used to this sort of business.  Just lying
here with my eyes shut or staring at the ceiling, which is worse, drives a man mad.  I told
Patten to-day that if he didn't let me see folks I'd get up and go out if I had to crawl."

Virginia laughed, determined to be cheerful.

"I am afraid that you make a rather troublesome patient, don't you?" she asked lightly.

Norton made no answer but lay motionless save for the constant plucking at his coverlet, his
eyes moodily fixed upon the wall.  Mrs. Engle, finding the water-pitcher empty and saying that
she would be back in two seconds, went out to fill it.  Promptly Norton's eyes returned to
Virginia's face, resting there steadily.

"I've been dizzy and sick and half out of my head a whole lot," he said abruptly.  "I've been
thinking of you most of the time, dreaming about you, climbing cliffs with you. . . ."

He broke off suddenly, but did not remove his eyes from hers.  It was she who turned away,
pretending to find it necessary to adjust the window-curtain.  It was impossible to sit quietly
while he looked at her that way, his eyes all without warning filling with a look for any girl
to read a look of glowing admiration, almost a look of pure love-making.  Norton sighed and
again his head moved restlessly on his pillow.

"I've had time to think here of late," he said after a little.  "More time to think than I've
ever had before in my life.  About everything; myself and Jim Galloway and you. . . .  I have
decided to send word to the district attorney to let Galloway go," he added, again watching
her.  "I am not going to appear against him and there's no case if I don't."

"But . . ." she began, wondering.

"There are no buts about it.  Suppose I can get him convicted, which I doubt; he'd get a light
sentence, would appeal, at most would be out of the way a couple of years or so.  And then
it would all be to do over again.  No; I want him out in the open, where he can go as far as
he wants to go.  And then . . ."

She saw how his body stiffened as he braced himself with his feet against the foot-board.

"We won't talk shop," she said gently.  "It isn't good for you.  Don't think about such things
any more than you have to."

"I've got to think about something," he said impatiently.  "Can I think about you?"

"Why not?" she answered as lightly as she had spoken before.

"Maybe that isn't good for me either," he answered.

"Nonsense.  It's always good for us to think about our friends."

His eyes wandered from hers, rested a moment upon the little table near his bedhead and came
back to her, narrowing a little.

"Will you set a chair against that window-shade?" he asked.  "The light at the side hurts my eyes."

It was a natural request and she turned naturally to do what he asked. But, even with her back
turned, she knew that he had reached out swiftly for something that lay on the table, that
he had thrust it out of sight under his pillow.

Mrs. Engle returned and Virginia, staying another minute, said good-by. As she went out she
glanced down at the table.  In her room she asked herself what it was that he had snatched
and hidden.  It seemed a strange thing to do and the question perplexed her; while she attached
no importance to it, it was there like a pebble in one's shoe, refusing to be ignored.

That night, just as she was going to sleep, she knew.  Out of a half doze she had visualized
the table with its couple of bottles, a withering rose, a scrap of note-paper, a fountain pen.
The pen . . . it was Patten's . . . had evidently leaked and had been wiped carelessly upon
the sheet of paper, left lying with the paper half wrapped around it.  She had noted carelessly
a few scrawled words in Patten's slovenly hand.  And she knew that it had been removed while
she turned her back, removed by a hand which, in its haste, had slipped the pen with it under
the pillow.

She went to sleep incensed with herself that she gave the matter another thought.  But she
kept asking herself what it was that Patten had written that Roderick Norton did not want her
to read.

CHAPTER XIV

A FREE MAN

"I am a free man, if you please."  The sheriff stood in the hotel doorway, looking down upon
her as she sat in her favorite veranda chair.  "I have given my keeper his fee and sent him
away.  May I watch you while you read?"

Virginia closed her book upon her knee and gave him a smile by way of welcome.  He looked unusually
tall as he stood in the broad, low entrance; his ten days of sickness and inactivity had made
him gaunt and haggard.

"I shouldn't be reading in this light, anyway," she said.  "I hadn't noticed that the sun was
down.  It is good to be what you call free again, isn't it?"

He laughed softly, put back his head, filled his lungs.  Then he came on to her and stood leaning
against the wall, his hat cocked to one side to hide the bandage.

"The world is good," he announced with gay positiveness.  "Especially when you've been away
from it for a spell and weren't quite sure what was next.  And especially, too, when you've
had time to think.  Did you ever take off a week and just do nothing but think?"

"One doesn't have time for that sort of thing as a rule," she admitted. "There's a chair standing
empty if you care to let me in on your deductions."

"I don't want to sit down or lie down until I'm ready to drop," he grinned down at her.  "A
bed makes me sick at my stomach and a chair is pretty nearly as bad.  I'd like almighty well
to get a horse between my knees . . . and ride!  Suppose I'd fall to pieces if I tried it right
now?"

"Sure of it.  And not so sure that you haven't discharged your keeper prematurely.  You mustn't
think of such things."

"There you go.  Forbidding me to think again! . . . Believe I will sit down; would you believe
that a full-grown man like me could get as weak as a cat this quick?"

He took the chair just beyond her, tilted it back against the wall, his booted heels caught
under its elevated legs, and glanced away from her to the colorful sky above San Juan's scattered
houses in the west.

"Yes, sir," he continued his train of thought, "I'd like a horse between my knees; I'd like
to ride out yonder into the sunset, to meet the night as it comes down; I'd like the feeling
of nothing but the stars over me instead of the smothery roof of a house.  Doesn't it appeal
to you, too?"

"Yes," she said.

"You on Persis, with me on my big roan, riding not as we rode that other night, but just for
the fun of it.  I'd like to ride like the devil. . . .  You don't mind my saying what I mean,
do you? . . . to go scooting across the sage-brush letting out a yell at every jump, boring
holes in the night with my gun, making all of the racket and dust that one man can make.  Ever
feel that way? just like getting outside and making a noise?  Let me talk!  I'm the one who
has been shut up for so long my tongue has started to grow fast to the roof of my mouth.  At
first I could do nothing but lie flat on my back in a sort of fog, seeing nothing clearly,
thinking not at all.  Then came the hours in which I could do nothing but think, under orders
to keep still.  Think? Why, I thought about everything that ever happened, most things that
might happen, and a whole lot that never will.  Now comes the third stage; I can talk better
than I can walk. . . .  Do you mind listening while a man raves?"

"Not in the least."  She found his mood contagious and, smiling in that quick, bright way natural
to her, showed for a moment the twin dimples of which together with a host of other things
he had had ample time to think during his bedroom imprisonment.  "Please rave on."

"In due course," he mused, "the fourth stage will arrive and I can be doing something besides
talk, can't I?  Now let me tell you about the King's Palace."

"You begin well."

"The King's Palace is where we are going on our first outing.  That was decided three days
ago at four minutes after 6 A.M.  You and I and, if you like, Florrie and your kid brother.
We'll ride out there in the very early morning, in the saddle before the stars are gone.  We'll
lunch and loaf there all day.  For lunch we will have bacon and coffee, cooked over a fire
in one of the Palace anterooms.  We will have some trout, fried in the bacon-grease, trout
whipped out of the likeliest mountain-stream you ever saw or heard about.  We will have cheese,
perhaps, and maybe a box of candy for dessert.  We'll ride home in the dusk and the dark."

"The King's Palace?" she asked curiously.  "I never heard of such a place.  Are you making
it all up?"

"Not a bit of it.  It's all that's left of some of the old ruins of the same folk who lived
in the caves up on the cliffs. . . .  Do you know why I am bound to get Jim Galloway's tag
soon or late?"

Her mind with his had touched upon the hidden rifles, and the abrupt digression was no digression
to her, reached by the span of suggestion.

"Because he is in the wrong and you are in the right; or, in other words, because he opposes
the law and you represent it."

"Because he plays the game wrong!  Some more results of a long week of nothing to do but think
things out.  There is just one way for a law-breaker to operate if he means to get away with it."

"You mean that a man can get away with it?  Surely not for good?"

But he nodded thoughtfully at the slowly fading strata of shaded colors splashed across the sky.

"A man can get away with it for keeps . . . if he plays the game right. Jim Galloway isn't
that man and so I'll get him.  He has ignored the first necessary principle, which is the lone
hand."

"You mean he takes men into his confidence?"

"And he goes on and ignores the second necessary principle; a man must stop short of murder.
If he turns gangman and killer, he ties his own rope around his neck.  If a man like Galloway,
a man with brains, power, without fear, without scruple, should decide to loot this corner
of the world or any other corner, and set about it right, playing the lone hand invariably,
he would be a man I couldn't bring in in a thousand years.  But Galloway has slipped up; he
has too many Moragas and Antones and Vidals at his heels; he has been the cause, directly or
indirectly, of too many killings. . . .  A theft will be forgotten in time, the hue and cry
die down; spilled blood cries to heaven after ten years."

"Galloway is back in San Juan."

"I know.  I wanted him back.  I wanted him free and unhampered.  He'll be bolder than ever
now, won't he, if this case is dropped?  He's come out a little into the open already, he'll
be tempted out a little farther.  There'll be more of his work soon, a robbery here or there,
and he will grow so sure of himself that he'll get careless.  Then I'll get him."

"But have you the right?" she asked quickly.  "Knowing him a lawbreaker, have you the right
to allow him to go farther and farther, just because in the end you hope to get him?"

He met her look with a smile which puzzled her.

"I'll answer your question when you define right and wrong for me," he said quietly.

They grew silent together, watching the gradual sinking of day into twilight and early dusk.
Norton, for all his vaunted ravings, had grown thoughtful; Virginia turning her eyes toward
him while his were staring out beyond the house-tops saw in them a look of deep, frowning speculation.
And through this look, like a little fire gleaming through a fog, was another look whose meaning
baffled her.

"What do you think of Patten?" he asked.

Startled by his abruptness, characteristic of him though it was to-day, she asked in puzzled
fashion:

"What do you mean?"

"Not as a man," he said, withdrawing his gaze from the sunset and bestowing it gravely upon
her.  "As a physician.  Do you size him up as capable or as something of a quack?"

She hesitated.  But finally she made the only reply possible.

"Of course you don't expect any answer, knowing that you should not come to one member of a
profession for an estimate of another.  And, besides, you realize that I know nothing whatever
of Dr. Patten, either as a man or as a physician."

He laughed softly.

"Hedging, pure, unadulterated hedging!  I didn't look for that from you.  Shall I tell you
what we both think of him?  He is a farce and a fake, and I rather think that I am going to
run him out of the State pretty soon. . . .  What would you say of a doctor who couldn't tell
the difference between a wound made by a man bumping his head when he fell and by a smashing
blow with a gun-barrel?  Patten doesn't guess yet that it was the blow Moraga gave me the other
night which came so close to ringing down the sable curtains for me."

"Moraga?" she asked with quickened interest.  "Not the same Moraga who shot Brocky Lane?"

"The same little old Moraga," he assured her lightly.  "You needn't mention it abroad, of course;
I don't think Galloway got a chance to talk with him and we are not sure yet that he even knows
Moraga was here.  But I know somebody put me out in the dark by hammering me over the head;
and Tom Cutter found blood on Moraga's revolver.  But we wander far afield.  Coming back to
Patten, do we agree that he is something of a dub?" 

"Should say 't was a mud-turtle by the looks of his legs," said Bob.

"Nurth, do turtle-doves live in the mud?" said Pip.

"Nonsense," said Bob, "as if birds ever lived in the mud!"

"Well," said Pip, "thum thwallows, I know, make their neths of mud,
and then they live in their neths, and that's living in mud.

But here comth the Profethor; let's see what heeth found. It's thumthin in a
glath."

The Professor came up, walking very slowly across the grass; then
stepped carefully up upon the piazza, and, as he passed the window,
he called for some one to come and open the front door.

All the children ran together, and opened the door with such a flourish,
the Professor was obliged to call out, "Stand off!

Hands off!"

"Will it splode?" said Pip.

"Will it bite?" said Bob.

"Will it fly away?" said Tom.

"It will splode," said the Professor, "and it will fly away; but it
won't bite."

"Oh my!" said Pip, "what can it be?

I never heard of any creature splodin!"

The Professor looked pleased; his face was red, his hair was tumbled,
his coat was torn, and his boots and trousers were muddy.

"You look as if you had had a hard time catching the creature, whatever
it is," said nurse.

"You'd better leave it out-of-doors now, and clean yourself, and
come and eat your luncheon."

"Oh, please, nurse, let's see it now!" said all the children; and
nurse, who wanted to see it herself, agreed.

"You can't see it," said the Professor; "it's invisible!

You can't see it till it disappears!"

"Oh dear," said Pip, "I just ache to know about it."

"Well," said the Professor, "light mamma's wax-taper."

"I don't see what good lighting a taper will do, if the creature's
invisible," said Bob.

The Professor set his burden down on the table. It was a saucer filled with water, and in the water
stood a tumbler upside down. There was nothing to be seen in the tumbler.

The Professor struck an attitude.

"What I have in this tumbler, nurse and children, was obtained with
great difficulty.

I've been about it ever since lesson-time."

"Where did you find it?" says Pip.

"How came you to know about it?" says Tom.

"I should think it would be hard to catch nothing," says Bob.

"I found it in the water, in the little pool in our woods. I saw it
first the other night in the dark, and I caught it to-day when it
was hiding.

I took a long stick and gently stirred up the dead leaves that lie
rotting on the bottom, and he began to come up--first one, then another--now
here, and now there."

"Ho! ho!" says Bob. "How could that be? How could he come up in pieces, and in different places?"

"Poor thing!" said Pip. "He wath dead!"

"Oh, if he's dead I don't care about him," says Bob.

"He's far from dead," said the Professor; "and though he was in pieces,
he's all together now, and safe in this tumbler."

And then, seizing the lighted taper, he turned up the tumbler, held the taper
quickly to its mouth, and--Pop! went something, with a quick flash.

"Oh, fire-works!" says Bob.

"Oh, tell us truly about it!" says Tom. "Where did you buy it?

Let's have some for the Fourth!"

"Children," said the Professor, "I have told you the truth about it.

It's gas. It's carbureted hydrogen. I found it in the pond. 'Carbureted
hydrogen' is its science name. Its poetry name is 'Will-o'-the-wisp,' and
there's another name besides."

"I should think two names were enough for nothing," says Bob.

"What'th the other name?" said Pip.

"Ignis fatuus," said the Professor. "It means 'Cheating-fire.' Sometimes
this gas, rising to the top of the water in bubbles, takes fire (by
what they call spontaneous combustion, or by mixing with some other
gas, or in some other way), and then, as one bubble after another
takes fire and goes flickering along, it looks as if some one were
walking through the woods with a lantern."

"And thath how it cheat-th, isn't it?" said Pip.

"But I don't thee how it is thet afire.

Perhapth, now--perhapth it's the fire-flyth!"

"Oh, good for you!" said the Professor; and he chased her round the table,
and caught her, and kissed her.

"Well, how did you ever get it with that tumbler?" said Tom.

"Well, easy enough. First, I filled the tumbler with water. Then I
laid the saucer over the top.

Then I plunged the whole under the water, holding tumbler and saucer with both
hands firm, and turned them over in the water, and drew them out.

The saucer, as well as the tumbler, was then full of water, and though
the tumbler was upside down the water couldn't fall out."

"What hindered it, I'd like to know?" said Bob.

"Atmospheric
pressure," said the Professor, pushing the words out slowly.

"The whole atmosphere weighs down on the water in the saucer and
balances the water in the tumbler and keeps it in."

"It had all leaked out before you reached home, anyway," said Bob.

"The
gas pushed it out," said the Professor, "I told you how I stirred
up the bottom of the pool.

It was all covered with dead leaves. These as they rot give out gas,
but it cannot easily escape from the bottom, and stays down among the
leaves and slime till it is stirred up.

Then the little bubbles of gas come popping up, and as they mount I
am ready with my tumbler and saucer. I slip them both softly into the
water a little way off, draw out the saucer, slide the inverted tumbler
over the bubbles before they break; and the gas mounts into the tumbler,
each bubble of gas displacing a little water; then over more bubbles,
and more and more, until all the water in the tumbler is out and the
gas is in its place; then I fill the saucer with water again, slide
it under the tumbler, and bring it home."

"Come to your luncheon, children," cried nurse. "The pudding will be cold."

"Oh,
wait a minute," said Tom. "You said the gas drove out the water in the tumbler.
Why don't it drive out the water in the saucer?"

The Professor looked puzzled.

"Well, it would in time, I suppose.

But you see, its nature is to push upward, because it's light----"

"Oh, now, it pushes the same every way," said Tom.

"There's something we don't know," said Bob.

"Oh, yeth, I am afwaid we don't know it all," said Pip.

"Well," drawled the Professor, "I don't know, only I guess it's because
the water is too dense--too close together, for one thing; and the
same atmospheric pressure that kept the water in keeps the gas in,
for another."

"There, I do believe that's it," said Pip.

"Oh,
how nice it did pop off! Like a vewy small fwier-cracker a great way off. Now let's have some pudding. Apple
and sago! Just the nithest pudding in the world!"

One day an ant went to visit her neighbor; She found her quite busy
with all sorts of labor; So she didn't go in, but stopped at the
sill; Left her respects, and went back to her hill.

FOUR CHARADES.[A]

BY C. P. CRANCH.

I.

When swiftly in my first you glide along, Naught ruffles up the temper
of your mind; All goes as smoothly as a summer song, All objects flit
beside you like the wind.

But if you should be stopped in your career, And forced to linger when
you fain would fly, You'll leave my first, and, very much I fear,
Will fall into my second speedily.

Till in some snug and comfortable room Your friends receive you as
a welcome guest, You'll own that Winter's robbed of half his gloom,
When on my whole your feet in slippers rest.

II.

MY FIRST.

I sunder friends, yet give to laws A place to stand and plead their
cause. Though justice and sobriety Still find their safest ground in me,
I spread temptation in man's way, And rob and ruin every day.

MY SECOND.

Success and power are in my name, Men strive for me far more than
fame.

One thing I am unto the wise, But quite another in fools' eyes, Through
me the world is rich and strong, Yet too much love of me is wrong.

MY WHOLE.

My first and second when they meet, As lawyers' fees, my whole complete.
And yet my first too oft enjoyed, Is sure to make my second void.
My whole is good and bad by turns, As every merchant daily learns.

III.

My first the stout Hibernian
wields On banks and streets and stubborn fields, To earn the bread
that labor yields.

My second is a name for one Whose youth and age together run, A leader
all good people shun.

My whole in summer-time is sweet, When youths and maids together meet Beneath
some shady grove's retreat.

(So simple is
this short charade, That I am very much afraid You'll guess at once, without
my aid.)

IV.

When I was a little boy, how welcome was my first; When tired of play
I went to bed, my lessons all rehearsed.

How soundly all
the night I slept, without a care or sorrow, And waked when sunshine
lit the room, and robins sang good-morrow.

When I was a little boy, what joy it was to see My second waiting at the door
for Willy and for me; And how we trotted off to bring ripe apples from
the farm, And piled our bags on Nellie's back, nor felt the least
alarm.

But when I was a little boy, I had an ugly dream, A huge black bear was
in my bed, I gave a dreadful scream, And roused the house; they brought
in lights, and put my whole to flight, Since then I made a vow to
eat no supper late at night.

[A] The answers will
be given in the "Letter-Box" for May, 1878.

WISE CATHERINE AND THE KABOUTERMANNEKEN.

BY HOWARD PYLE.

In old times, there was once a quaint little dwarf, who was known as the
Kaboutermanneken of Kaboutermannekensburg.

In the very ancient times of good King Broderic and Frederic Barbarossa,
he constantly lived above ground, and many times was seen trudging
along through the moonlit forest with a bag over his shoulder.

What was in the bag nobody exactly knew,
but most people supposed it to be gold.

The Kaboutermanneken was a peppery little fellow, and at the slightest
word his rage would fire up hotly.

Since he was quite able, small
as he was, to thrash the strongest man, he was very generally avoided.

It
is a well-assured fact that, as churches increase, dwarfs and elfin-folk
diminish; so, at last, when the town of Kaboutermannekensburg was
founded, and a church built, the Kaboutermanneken was fairly driven
to the wall, or, rather, into the ground, where he lived in the bowels
of the earth, and only appeared at intervals of a hundred years.

But, upon the last day that terminated
each of these series of a hundred years, he would re-appear in his old haunts,
and, I believe, continues the practice to the present day, in spite
of railroads, steam-engines, and all the paraphernalia of progress,
so destructive to fairy lore.

I.--THE GOLDEN CUP.

Once upon a time, after the Kaboutermanneken's visits had become events
of such rarity, there lived a worthy wood-chopper, who had a daughter
named Catherine; a pretty little maiden of sixteen, and yet the wisest
woman in the kingdom of Kaboutermannekensburg.

Shrewd as she was, she had yet the best, the kindest, and the most
guileless heart in the world; and many a sick man, troubled woman,
and grieved child had cause to bless her and her wisdom.

One winter, when labor was cheap and bread expensive, the wood-chopper,
whose name was Peter Kurtz, chopped his hand instead of the stump
he was aiming a blow at, and, in consequence, rendered himself unfit
for work for many a day.

During his sickness, the
whole care of the family devolved upon Kate; for Peter's wife had
died nearly two years before; so it was Kate who tended the baby,
dressed Johann, mended Wilhelm's small-clothes, and attended to the
wants of her father; for in those days a sick man was more complaining
than a child two years old.

Beside these acts of labor, she had to cook the meals, wash the dishes,
sweep the house, run of errands, chop the wood, make the fire, and
many other little odd duties of the kind; so that, upon the whole,
her time was pretty well occupied.

There seemed a probability now, however, that one of these duties
would be dispensed with, namely, cooking the meals; not that there
was any indolence upon Catherine's part, but because the necessary
materials were not forthcoming.

Indeed, the extent of the larder at present consisted of half a bowl
of cold gravy, and about a quarter of a loaf of bread.

When Catherine, that cold morning, inspected the woeful emptiness
of the cupboard, she wrung her cold blue hands in despair; but, wring
her poor little hands ever so much, she could not squeeze good bread
and meat out of them; something must be done, and that immediately,
if she would save the children from starving.

At length she bethought herself that many rich people of Kaboutermannekensburg
were fond of burning pine-cones instead of rough logs, not only on
account of the bright, warm and crackling fire they produced, but
also because of the sweet resinous odor that they threw out, filling
the house with a perfume like that which arose from the censers in
the cathedral.

It was woeful weather for Catherine to go hunting for pine-cones.

The snow lay a good foot deep over the glossy brown treasures, and she herself
was but thinly clad; yet the children must have bread.

Not having eaten any breakfast that morning, she slipped the remnant of
the loaf into the basket to serve as lunch, and then started to face the wind
toward the forest.

Bitterly cold blew the wind from the bleak north; tearing through
the moaning pine forest, that tossed and swayed before the tempest,
gnawing Catherine's nose and fingers, and snatching up, as it were,
handfuls of snow, and hurling them in a rage through the air.

Poor Catherine was nearly frozen, yet she struggled bravely on through
the drifting snow.

Suddenly she caught sight of a quaint little cottage that she had
never seen before, much as she had traveled this portion of the forest;
but a more welcome sight still was the gleam of a cheery fire within,
that illuminated the frost-covered panes with a ruddy glow.

Catherine, stumbling, sliding, struggling through
the drifts, reached the cottage at last, raised the latch, and entered
a door-way so low that even she, small as she was, had to stoop her
head in passing.

"Shut the door!" shrieked a shrill voice, with startling abruptness;
and, for the first time, Kate perceived a very little old man seated
in a very large chair, and smoking a very long pipe.

A great beard reached below his dangling feet and touched the floor.

"May I warm myself at your fire, kind gentleman?" said Kate, dropping
a courtesy.

The little old man grunted without looking at
her.

"May I warm myself at your fire, sir?" repeated Kate, in a louder
voice, supposing he must be deaf.

"I heard you!" growled the old dwarf, with sudden rage.

"You don't suppose I'm deaf, do you? I said yes.

You don't
want to argue, do you?"

Kate murmured her
thanks, feeling much astonished and very uncomfortable at the old
gentleman's conduct. Thus they sat in silence for a long while, the
little old man smoking like a volcano. At length:

"Are you
hungry?" said he, abruptly.

"Yes, sir," said Kate, bethinking herself of her bread.

"So am I!" said the old man, shortly, at the same time resuming his smoking.
Removing his pipe after another pause, "I haven't had anything to
eat for one hundred years; I feel kind of empty," said he.

"I should think so," thought
Kate to herself; then, after regarding him in silence for a few minutes, she
said, timidly, "I--I have a--a piece of bread in my basket, sir, if
you would like to have it?"

"Like to have
it? You speak as though you had no sense. Of course, I should like
to have it! Why didn't you offer it to me sooner?"

Kate, in spite of her hunger, that had recommenced gnawing her, now that
she was warm, handed him the piece of bread. The old man seized it ravenously,
opened his mouth to an astonishing extent, bolted the large morsel
as one does a pill, and then resumed his smoking as though nothing
of any note had occurred. Kate regarded him with silent astonishment.

"What
are you doing out in this kind of weather?" said the old man, suddenly.

"I
came to gather pine-cones to sell in the town," said Kate.

"You're a fool!" snapped the old man. "How do you suppose you
can gather pine-cones in twelve inches of snow, not to mention the drifts?"

"Nevertheless,
sir, I have to get the children something to eat, and father----"

"Oh! don't bother me with that story!" said the old man, impatiently.

"I know all about it. Your father's
Peter Kurtz, isn't he?"

"Yes, sir."

"Umph!" grunted the dwarf. Then, after
another pause, "go to the closet yonder, and take one of the cups
there, in return for the bread you gave me."

"Indeed, sir," said
Kate, earnestly, "I do not care for any return for----"

"Do as I tell you!" bellowed the dwarf,
in a fury.

Kate crossed the room, opened the cupboard, and--what a sight met
her eyes!

All the dishes, bowls, cups and saucers were of
pure gold.

"Take one of the cups?" said Kate, in breathless doubt.

"That's what I said, wasn't
it?" snarled the dwarf.

"You are just like all women,
never contented with what you receive."

Catherine was far too wise to answer foolish abuse with useless excuse;
she silently took one of the beautiful cups and put it in her basket.

She was so overcome that she did
not think of any word of thanks until she had reached the door; then,
turning: "May heaven bless you, sir, for----"

"Shut the door!" screamed the dwarf.

Kate hurried home, but before reaching the town she wisely covered
the cup with snow, that no gossiping neighbor might catch sight of
it; for she well knew that gossip was like the snow-ball that the
little boys start rolling from the top of a hill--small in the commencement,
but sure to grow before it ends its course.

"Where have you been all this time?" whined Peter.

When Kate recounted her
adventure, her father could hardly believe her, and when she had
carefully removed the snow from the cup, he could hardly believe his
eyes.

He placed it upon the table, and then, sitting
down in front of it, he examined it with breathless astonishment
and delight.

The cup was of solid gold, heavy and massive; carved upon it in bold relief
was a group of figures representing a host of little elves at a banquet.
So exquisitely were they engraved that they appeared actually to move,
and it seemed as though one could almost hear their laughter and talk.
A glittering, carved golden snake, curled around the brim of the
cup, served as a handle; its eyes were two diamonds.

After Peter Kurtz had feasted his eyes upon this treasure for a long
time, he arose suddenly, and, without saying a word, wrapped up the
cup in a napkin, drew his cowl more closely around his face, and,
taking his staff, prepared to leave the house.

"Where are you going, father?" said Kate.

"I am going," said Peter, "to take this cup to our master, the Baron
von Dunderhead; that will be far more to our advantage than selling it
to some petty goldsmith or other."

"Take care what you do, father!" said
Kate, quickly. "I foresee that danger will come of it, if you fulfill
your intention."

"Bah!" said Peter, and, without deigning another word, he marched out
of the house; for Peter, like a great many men in those days, had a very
poor opinion of the feminine intellect, and a very good opinion of his own.
So off he marched boldly toward castle Dunderhead.

When Peter presented the golden cup to the baron, with a low bow, that
nobleman could not find sufficient words to express his admiration. He
sighed with rapture, and examined the cup from every side with the
utmost minuteness.

"Give this worthy man," said he, "four bags of guilders; money is
nothing to the acquisition of such a treasure of beauty."

Here Peter secretly hugged himself, and
chuckled at his daughter's warning.

Meanwhile, the baron examined
the cup with huge satisfaction. Suddenly turning to Peter, "Where is
the saucer?" said he.

"The saucer?" repeated Peter, blankly.

"Please you, my lord, it never had a saucer!"
"Never had a saucer?" repeated the baron. "You don't mean to tell
me that such a cup as that was ever made without a saucer to go with
it!"

"Nevertheless, my lord, I have no saucer," said Peter, humbly.

"You
are deceiving me," said the baron, sternly. Then, fixing his eye upon
poor Peter, "Where did you get that cup?" said he, abruptly. "Me-thinks
you are rather a poor man to possess such a treasure."

"Oh, good
my lord!" cried poor Peter, "I will tell you the whole truth. An old
man in the forest gave it to my daughter Kate."

"Do you expect me
to believe such a story as that?" exclaimed the baron. "You stole
it, you thief!" he roared, at the same time seizing Peter by the collar.
"Ho! guards! Arrest this man, and throw him into the dungeon," cried
he to his attendants.

"Mercy! mercy, my lord!" cried poor Peter,
falling on his knees. But the guards dragged him off in spite of his
cries, and popped him into a dungeon, where he was left to meditate
over his folly in not heeding his daughter's advice.

II.--THE GOOSE
THAT WAS TO LAY THE GOLDEN EGG.

Catherine waited anxiously for her
father's return, but her fears told her all when night came and he
came not.

After she had put the children to bed, having given them
each a piece of bread, which she had borrowed from a kind neighbor,
she threw a shawl around her head and started off in the direction
of Castle Dunderhead, where her fears told her only too plainly her
father was. The bars of the dungeon windows came upon a level with
the ground, like those of a cellar.

"Father!" murmured Catherine.

"Oh,
Kate!" was the response, followed immediately by the sound of violent
crying, and Catherine knew her father was there. "Oh, Kate! if I--I
had but l-listened to you!" sobbed the poor fellow; for, now that
the discovery was too late to avail him, he felt perfectly sure of
his daughter's superior intelligence. Then, with much sobbing, he
recounted all the particulars of his interview with the baron. "Can't
you do something to get your poor old father out?" continued he.

Kate
was thoughtful for a moment. "I'll try, father," said she, at length;
and, bidding him a hasty adieu, she hurried off. She ran, without
stopping, to where the little cottage stood in the forest; but, as
you have already probably guessed, the old man was the Kaboutermanneken,
his day's visit was over, and he had descended once more into the
obscurity of the earth; consequently Catherine, much to her perplexity,
could not discover the little cottage. After vainly seeking for some
time, she at length saw the hopelessness of her task, and wended her
way sorrowfully homeward. She lay awake nearly all night, vainly cudgeling
her brains for some plan by which to deliver her father from his confinement.
At length an idea occurred to her, and, smiling to herself, she turned
on her pillow and fell asleep until the sun shining in her eyes awakened
her. Then, arising, she donned her best frock and neatest cap, and
proceeded to the Castle Dunderhead. She was directly presented to
the baron.

"My lord!" said she, falling upon her knees.

"Well, my
pretty damsel," said he; for Kate looked very sweet in her saucy cap.

"My
lord," continued she, and the tears rose to her eyes as she spoke;
"you have my father in custody."

"Ha!" exclaimed the baron, frowning,--"Peter
Kurtz?"

"Yes, my lord."

"Bring forth Peter Kurtz!" cried the baron
to the guard, and soon Peter made his appearance, crying like a good
fellow.

"He is Señor Don Enrique del Rio," explained Ignacio, touched by the spell of the other's munificence
and immaculate clothes.  "He would like to shake the hand of Señor Engle to become acquainted
and then friends. . . .  He brings papers to tell who and what he is in Mexico City, whence
he has departed because of too damn much fight down there; he wishes to put some money here
in the banco, which he can take away again to buy a big ranch and many cattle and horses. 
He has the other money in a banco in New York, where he sent it out from Mexico two, three
months ago."

And so on, while Engle gravely listened and shrewdly, after his fashion in business hours,
probed for the inner man under the outer polish, while del Rio nodded and smiled and never
withdrew his night-black eyes from Engle's face.

Del Rio, it appeared, had gone first to the Casa Blanca because he had heard of Jim Galloway
as one of the most influential men of the county. Since arriving in San Juan, however, he had
heard this and that, mere rumors, which caused him to come to Engle.  He, a stranger, could
ill afford in the beginning to have his name coupled with that of any man not known for his
spotless integrity.  Señor Engle understood? . . . Later, when del Rio had found the properties
to his liking and had builded a home, his wife and two daughters would arrive.  Now they travelled
in California.

In the end Engle accepted the Mexican's deposits, which amounted to approximately a thousand
dollars, and which were to be drawn against merely as an expense account until del Rio found
his ranch.  And the first item of expense was the purchase from Engle himself of a fine saddle-animal,
a pure-blooded, clean-limbed young mare, sister to Persis.  After which the Mexican spent a
great deal of his time riding about the country, looking at ranches.  He visited Engle's two
places, called upon Norton at Las Flores, ferreting out prices, looking at water and feed,
examining soil.

It was a bare fortnight after the coming of del Rio when out of Las Palmas came word of fresh
lawlessness.  The superintendent of the three Quigley mines had been surprised the night before
pay-day, forced at the point of a revolver to open his own safe, and robbed of several thousand
dollars.  A man on horseback rushed word to San Juan, found Tom Cutter, who located Norton
the same afternoon at his ranch at Las Flores.

"Rod, old man," cried Cutter angrily, "this damned thing has got to stop!  You haven't a much
better friend than I am, I guess, and I'm telling you straight that the whole county is getting
sore on you. They will talk more than ever now, saying that it's up to you to get results and
that you don't get them."

"The stick-up was last night?" asked the sheriff coolly.

"Yes," snapped Cutter.

"You were in San Juan?"

"Yes."

"Where was Jim Galloway?  Was he in town?"

"No, he wasn't.  I don't know where he was.  But I do know where he ought to be. . . ."

"Was that Mexican gent, del Rio, in town?"

Cutter opened his eyes.

"No.  I don't think so.  You haven't got anything on him, have you?"

"Only what you told me.  Remember that his first day in San Juan he went to Galloway like a
homing pigeon."

Norton went for his horse, saddled, and rode swiftly to Las Palmas.  In the mining-camp he
went immediately to the office of Nate Kemble, the superintendent, whom he found cursing volubly.

"It's up to you," were the sharp words of greeting as Kemble wheeled upon the sheriff.  "What
the hell do you think you're for, anyway? Good Lord, man, if you can't cut the mustard, why
don't you crawl out and let a man who can wear your star?"

"Easy there, Kemble," said Norton quietly.  "You can do your raring and pitching after I'm
gone.  Tell me about it.  What time did it happen?"

"It was hardly dark."

"How many men jumped you?"

"Just one.  But . . ."

"Just one, eh?"  He pondered the information.  "That isn't the usual brand of Galloway work,
is it?  Get a good slant at him?"

"At his clothes," growled Kemble, slamming himself down dejectedly in his chair.  "His face
was hid, of course."

"Ever see a Mexican named del Rio?"

Like Cutter before him, Kemble started.

"Don't ask me what I mean," Norton cut him short.  "Del Rio is a pretty big man for a Mexican;
was this highwayman about his size?"

Kemble hesitated.

"It's hard to say just how big a man is when he comes in on you like that," he said at last.
"At a guess I'd say that the man who stuck me up was a little taller than del Rio.  But I wouldn't
swear to it."

"It might have been del Rio himself, then?" Norton insisted.

"Yes.  Or it might have been the Devil's grandmother.  I don't . . ."

"See anything of del Rio the last few days?"

"Saw him yesterday.  He was in camp.  Was talking mines."

"See anything of Galloway hereabouts of late?"

"No.  Haven't seen him for a month or two."

Norton asked a few other questions, kept his own thoughts to himself, and rode away.  Less
than a mile from the camp he met Jim Galloway riding a sweat-wet horse.  The two men reined
in sharply, each man's eyes matching the other's for hardness.  Galloway's face was red, the
fiery red of anger.

"Going back for what you forgot, Jim?" asked Norton.

For a moment Galloway, staring back at him, seemed utterly speechless in the grip of his wrath.
Norton did not remember ever having seen such blazing anger in the prominent eyes.

"Between you and me, Rod Norton," muttered Galloway at last, "I have turned a trick or two
in my time.  But this job is none of my doing and if I wise up as to who put it over he'll
go under the sand or into the pen, and I'll put him there."

Norton laughed.

"In other words, some free-lance has made a bid to break your corner on the crime market, eh?"
he jeered.  "Put one over on you without your knowledge and consent?  And without splitting
two ways?  That what you mean?"

"I mean that I'd pay five hundred dollars out of my own pocket right now for the dead-wood
on the man who robbed Kemble."

"Kid Rickard is around once more; sure he didn't do it?"

"Yes, I am.  Kid Rickard didn't do it."

Norton eased himself in the saddle, thoughtfully regarding Galloway. And then, very abruptly:

"How about your friend, del Rio?"

It was the third time that he had mentioned del Rio's name in this connection and to the third
man.  And now, but slightly different in degree only, he saw the same look in Galloway's eyes
which he had brought into Cutter's and Kemble's.

"Del Rio?" repeated Galloway frowningly.  "What makes you say that?"

"I'll collect your five hundred later," was Norton's laughing response. Swerving out a little
as he passed, he rode on.

CHAPTER XVII

A STACK OF GOLD PIECES

John Engle rapidly came to assume the nature and proportions of a stubborn bulwark standing
sturdily between Roderick Norton and the fires of criticism, which, springing from little,
scattered flames were now a wide-spread blaze amply fed with the dry fuel of many fields. Again
there had been a general excitement over a crime committed, much talk, various suspicions,
and, in the end, no arrest made.  Men who had stood by the sheriff until now began to lose
faith in him.  They recalled how, after the fight in the Casa Blanca, he had let Galloway go
and with him Antone and the Kid; their memories trailed back to the killing of Bisbee of Las
Palmas and the evidence of the boots.  They began to admit, at first reluctantly, then with
angry eagerness, that Norton was not the man his father had been before him, not the man they
had taken him to be.  And all of this hurt Norton's stanch friend, John Engle.  All the more
that he, too, saw signs of hesitancy which he found it hard to condone.

"Let him alone," he said many a time.  "Give him his chance and a free hand.  He knows what
he is doing."

From that point he began to make excuses, first to himself and then to others.  People were
forgetting that only a short time ago the sheriff had lain many days at the point of death;
that his system had been overtaxed; that not yet had his superb strength come back to him.
Wait until once more he was physically fit.

It was merely an excuse, and at the outset no man knew it better than the banker himself. 
But as time went by without bringing results and tongues grew sharper and more insistent everywhere,
Engle grew convinced that there was a grain of truth in his trumped-up argument. He invited
Norton to his home, had him to dinner, watched him keenly, and came to the conclusion that
Norton was riding on his nerves, that he had not taken sufficient time to recuperate before
getting his feet back into the official stirrups, that the strain of his duties was telling
on him, that he needed a rest and a change or would go to pieces.

But Norton, the subject broached, merely shook his head.

"I'm all right, John," he said a little hurriedly and nervously.  "I am run down at the heels
a bit, I'll admit.  But I can't stop to rest right now.  One of these days I'll quit this job
and go back to ranching.  Until then . . .  Well, let them talk.  We can't stop them very well."

Suspicion of the Quigley mines robbery had turned at first toward del Rio.  But he had established
an alibi.  So had Galloway.  So had Antone and the Kid.

"There is nothing to do but wait," Norton insisted.  "It won't be long now."

Engle, having less than no faith in Patten's ability, went to Virginia Page.  She saw Norton
often; what did she think?  Was he on the verge of a collapse?  Was he physically fit?

"All of this criticism hurts him," said the banker thoughtfully.  "I know Rod and how he must
take it, though he only shrugs.  It's gall and wormwood to him.  He's up against a hard proposition,
as we all know; if he is half-sick, I wonder if the proposition isn't going to be too much
for him?  Can't you advise him, persuade him to knock off for a couple of weeks and clear out?
Get into a city somewhere and forget his work.  Why, it's the most pitiful thing in the world
to see a man like him lose his grip."

"He is not quite himself," she admitted slowly.  "He is more nervous, inclined to be short
and irritable, than he used to be.  You may be right; or it may be simply that his continued
failure to stop these crimes is wearing him down.  I'll be glad to watch him, to talk with
him if he will listen to me."

But first she forced herself to what seemed a casual chat with Patten, finding him loitering
upon the hotel veranda.  She suggested to him that Norton was beginning to show the strain,
that he looked haggard under it, and wondered if he had quite recovered from his recent illness?

Patten, after his pompous way, leaned back in his chair, his thumbs in his armholes, his manner
that of a most high judge.

"He's as well as I am," he announced positively.  "Thin, to be sure, just from being laid up
those ten days.  And from a lot of hard riding and worry.  That's all."

Out of Patten's vest-pocket peeped a lead-pencil.  Curiously enough, it carried her mind back
to Patten's incompetence.  For it suggested the fountain pen which of old occupied the pencil's
place and which the sheriff had taken in his haste to secrete a bit of paper with Patten's
scrawl upon it.  She wondered again just what had been on that paper, and if it were meant
to help Norton prove that Patten had no right to the M.D. after his name?  The incident, all
but forgotten, remained prominently in her mind, soon to assume a position of transcendent
importance.

And then, one after the other, here and there throughout the county came fresh crimes which
not only set men talking angrily but which drew the eyes of the State and then of the neighboring
States upon this corner of the world.  Newspapers in the cities commented variously, most of
them sweepingly condemning the county's sheriff for a figurehead and a boy who should never
have been given a man's place in the sun.  New faces were seen in San Juan, in Las Estrellas,
Las Palmas, Pozo, everywhere, and men said that the undesirable citizens of the whole Southwest
were flocking here where they might reap with others of their ilk and go scot free.  Naturally,
the Casa Blanca became headquarters for a large percentage of the newcomers.

"The condition in and about San Juan," commented one of the most reputable and generally conservative
of the attacking dailies, "has become acute, unprecedented for this time in our development.
The community has become the asylum of the lawless.  The authorities have shown themselves
utterly unable to cope with the situation.  A well-known figure of the desert town who long
ago should have gone to the gallows is daily growing bolder, attaching to himself the wildest
of the insurging element, and is commonly looked upon as a crime dictator.  Unless there comes
a stiffening in the moral fiber of the local officers, we dread to consider the logical outcome
of these conditions."

And so forth from countless quarters.  Galloway openly jeered at Norton.  New faces, looking
out from the Casa Blanca, grinned widely as the sheriff now and then rode past.  Engle and
Struve and Tom Cutter, anxious and beginning to be afraid of what lurked in the future, met
at the hotel and sought to hit upon a solution of the problem.

"Norton has got something up his sleeve," growled the hotel keeper, "and he's as stubborn as
a mule.  He's after Galloway, and it begins to look as though he were forgetting that his job
is to serve the county first and his own private quarrels next.  I've jawed him up and down;
it only makes him shake his head like a horse with flies after him."

The three, hoping that their combined arguments might have weight with Norton, went to him
and did not leave him until they had made clear what their thoughts were, what the whole State
was saying of him.  And, as Struve had predicted, he shook his head.

"These later robberies haven't been Galloway's work," he told them positively.  "They were
pulled off by the same man who stuck up Kemble of the Quigley mines.  Inside of a week I'll
get something done; I'll promise you that.  But let me do it my way."

Engle alone of the three drew a certain satisfaction from the interview.

"He has promised something definite," he told them.  "Did you ever know him to do that and
fail to keep his word?  Maybe we're getting a little excited, boys."

The latest crime had been the robbery of the little bank at Packard Springs.  The highwayman
had gone in the night to the room of the cashier, forced him to dress, go to the bank, and
open his safe.  The result was a theft of a couple of thousand dollars, no trace left behind,
and a growing feeling of insecurity throughout the county.  It was for this crime that Norton
meant and promised to make an arrest.

Exactly seven days from the day of his promise Norton rode into San Juan and asked for Tom
Cutter.  Struve, meeting him at the hotel door, looked at him sharply.

"Made that arrest yet, Norton?" he demanded.  Norton smiled.

"No, I haven't," he admitted coolly.  "But I've got a few minutes before my week's up, haven't
I?  Fix me up with something to eat and I'll have a talk with you and Tom while I attend to
the inner man."

But over his meal, while Cutter and Struve watched him impatiently, he did little talking other
than to ask carelessly where del Rio was.

"Damn it, man," cried Struve irritably.  "You've hinted at him before now.  If he's a crook,
why don't you go grab him?  He's in his room."

Norton swung about upon Struve, his eyes suddenly filled with fire.

"Look here, Struve," he retorted, "I've had about a bellyful of badgering.  I'm running my
job and it will be just as well for you to keep your hands off.  As for why I don't make an
arrest . . .  Come on, Tom.  You, too, Julius," his smile coming back.  "I'm going to get del Rio."

"I don't believe . . ." began Struve.

"Seeing is believing," returned Norton lightly.  "Come on."

Followed by the two men, Norton went direct to del Rio's room, at the front of the house, just
across the hall from Virginia's office.  At del Rio's quick "Entra," he threw open the door
and went in.  Del Rio, seated smoking a cigar, looked up with curious eyes which did not miss
the two men following the sheriff.

"You are under arrest for the bank robbery at Packard Springs," said Norton crisply.

"Que quiere usted decir?" demanded the Mexican, to whom the English words were meaningless.

Norton threw back his vest, showing his star.  And while he kept his eye upon del Rio he said
quietly to Cutter:

"Look through his trunk and bags."

Del Rio, understanding quickly enough, sat smoking swiftly, his eyes narrowing as they clung
steadily to Norton's.  Cutter, a rising hope in his breast that at last his superior had made
good, went to the trunk in the corner.  Del Rio shrugged and remained silent.

Cutter began tumbling out upon the floor an assortment of clothing, evincing little respect
for the Mexican's finery.  Suddenly, when his hands had gone to the bottom, he sat back upon
his heels, a leaping light in his eyes.

"Caught with the goods on, by God!" he cried.  "Look here, Struve!"

He had whipped out a canvas bag which gave forth the chink of gold. Another came after it.
And across each bag was stamped "Packard Springs Bank."

Del Rio's eyes had wandered a moment to Cutter and the evidence.  Then they came back to Norton,
filled with black malevolence.  One did not need to understand the southern language to grasp
the meaning of the words muttered under his breath.

Within the half-hour Strove, Cutter, and Engle had apologized to Norton; after this, they promised
him to keep their hands off and their mouths shut.

That evening Virginia and Norton sat long together on Struve's veranda. There was more silence
than talk between them.  Norton seemed abstracted; the girl was plainly constrained, anxious,
and found it difficult to keep her mind upon the thin thread of conversation joining their
occasional remarks.  Abruptly, out of one of their wordless intervals, she said quickly:

"Congratulate me on being a rich woman!  I got a check from an old, almost forgotten, patient
to-day.  A hundred dollars, all in one lump! It's a fortune in San Juan, isn't it?"

Norton laughed with her.

"I feel like spending it all in a breath," she ran on.  "I went right away to Mr. Engle and
had him cash it so that I could see what five twenty-dollar gold pieces looked like.  And I
chinked them and played with them like a child!  Do you think I am growing greedy for gold
in my old age? . . .  You ought to see them piled up, though; five twenties.  Isn't gold a
pretty thing?  I've a notion to go get them and show them to you; they're right on my table ..."

She broke off suddenly, her hand on his arm.

"Did you see some one out there at the corner of the house?" she asked quickly.  "Do you think
. . ."

Then she laughed again and settled back in her chair.

"Already thinking somebody is going to steal my gold!  My five twenties.  Just to punish myself
I am going to leave them on my office table all night; do you suppose I'll be wondering all
the time if somebody is crawling in at a window and taking them?"

Five minutes later she said good night and left him.

"I'll be up early in the morning," she said laughingly.  "Just to make sure that my gold is there!"

An hour later Virginia Page, sitting fully dressed in the darkness of her bedroom, got quietly
to her feet and went to the door leading to her office.  With wildly beating heart she stood
listening, seeking to peer through the crack of the door she had left ajar.  She had heard
the faint, expected sound of some one moving cautiously.

Now she heard it again, then the rustling of loose papers lying on her table, then the faint,
golden chink of yellow-minted disks.  As she suddenly scratched the match in her hand, drawing
it along the wall, she threw the door open.  The tiny flame, held high, retrieved the room
from darkness into sufficient pale light.  The man at her table whirled upon her, an exclamation
caught in his throat, one hand going to his hip, the other closing tight upon what it held.

She came in, her eyes steadily upon his, her face deathly pale.  As the match fell from her
fingers she went to the open window and drew down the shade.  Then she lit a second match,
set it to her lamp, and sank wearily into her chair.

"Shall we thresh matters out, Mr. Norton?" she asked.

CHAPTER XVIII

DESIRE OUTWEIGHS DISCRETION

Following Virginia's barely audible words there was a long silence. Her eyes, dark with the
trouble in them, rested upon Norton's face and saw the frown go from his brows while slowly
the red seeped into his bronzed cheeks.  For the first time in her life she saw him staggered
by the shock of surprise, held hesitant and uncertain.  For a little there was never a movement
of his rigid muscles; one hand rested upon the butt of his revolver, the other was closed upon
the stack of gold pieces.  When at last he found his tongue it was to accuse her.

"You trapped me," he said bitterly.

"With golden bait," she admitted, her voice oddly spiritless.  "Yes."

"Well," he challenged, "what are you going to do about it?"

"Do?  I don't know!"

Again they grew silent, studying each other intently.  Norton, his poise coming back to him
as the unusual color receded from his face, smiled at her with an affectation of his old manner.
Suddenly he stepped back to her table, noiselessly set down the coins, eased himself into a chair.

"You wished to thresh things out?  I am ready.  And in case we should be interrupted, you know,
I have called on you in your official capacity.  We'll say that I am troubled by the old wound
in the head; that will do as well as anything, won't it?"

"It was you who robbed the bank at Pozo!" she cried softly, leaning toward him, the look in
her eyes one of dread now.  "And the mine superintendent at Las Palmas?  And I don't know how
many other people. It was you!"

She had startled him in the beginning; she knew she would not draw another sign of surprise
from him.  He had himself under control, and long years of severe training made that control
complete.  He merely looked interested under her sweeping accusation.

"You must have a reason for a charge like that," he remarked evenly.

"Do you deny it?"

"I deny nothing, I affirm nothing right now.  I say that you must have a reason for what you
state."

"You put the incriminating evidence in del Rio's trunk," she ran on hurriedly.  "The canvas
bags of gold.  Didn't you?"

"Reason?" he insisted equably.

"You took Caleb Patten's fountain pen!  I saw you."

He lifted his brows at her.  Then he laughed softly.

"In the first place," he replied thoughtfully, "I really believe that he is not Caleb at all
but Charles Patten.  We'll talk of that later, however.  In the second place isn't it rather
humorous to wind up by accusing a man with the theft of a fountain pen after your other charges?"

"Answer one question," she urged earnestly.  "Please.  It is only a small matter.  Give me
your word of honor that you will answer it truthfully."

He was very grave as he sat for a moment, head down, twirling his big hat in slow fingers.
Then he smiled again as he looked up.

"Either truthfully or not at all," he promised her.  "My word of honor."

She was plainly excited as she set him her question, seeming at once eager and afraid to have
his response.

"I saw you take Patten's fountain pen and a scrap of note-paper from the table by your bed
when you were hurt--the first time I called to see how you were doing.  I thought that perhaps
there was something of importance written on the paper, that, if nothing else, you wanted a
bit of Patten's handwriting to use in your proof that he was not the man he pretended to be.
You slipped both pen and paper under your pillow.  Tell me just this: Was that paper of any
importance whatever, of any interest even, to you?"

"No," he said steadily, without hesitation.  "It was not.  I did not so much as look at it."

She leaned back in her chair with a long sigh, her eyes wide on his. And while he marvelled
at it, he saw that now her look was one of pure pity.

"Just what has that got to do with the robberies you mention?"

"Everything!" she burst out.  "Everything!  Can't you see?  Oh, my God!"

She dropped her face into her hands and he saw her shoulders lift and slump.  Glancing aside
swiftly, he saw the five golden disks on the table, almost to be reached from where he sat.

"No doubt," he said hastily, as her head was lifted again, "you think that you would like to
send me to jail?"

"Jail, no!  A thousand times no!  But you must, you must let me send you to a hospital!"

He frowned at her while he gave over twirling his hat and grew very still.

"You think I am crazy?" he asked sharply.  "That it?"

"No.  You are as sane as I am.  I don't think that at all.  But . . . Oh, can't you understand?"

"No, I can't.  You accuse me of this and that, you give no reasons for your wild suspicions,
you end up by suggesting medical treatment. What's the answer, Virginia Page?"

"The answer, Roderick Norton, is a very simple one.  But first I am going to ask you another
question or so.  You sought to commit a theft to-night, I saw you, so there is no use denying
it to me, is there?"

"Go ahead.  What next?"

"While you lay ill during a week or ten days you had time to think. You remember having told
me that you had had time to think about everything in the world?  It was at that time, wasn't
it, that you came to the decision which you mentioned to me that a man to commit crime and
play safe at the same time must keep in mind two essential matters: First, the lone hand; second,
not to kill?"

"I thought it out then; yes.  In fact, I suppose I told you so."

"The crimes committed recently have been characterized by these two essentials, haven't they?
Nearly all of them?"

He nodded, watching her keenly, holding back his answers for just a second or two each time.

"I believe so."

"Did you ever have an impulse to steal before you were knocked unconscious at the Casa Blanca?"

"No."

"And you have had that impulse almost all the time ever since?  Answer me, tell me the truth!
I am right, am I not?"

Now again he laughed softly at her.

"Virginia Page, the medico, speaks," he returned lightly.  "She has a theory.  A man may have
such an accident, leaving such and such pressure on the brain, with the result that he becomes
a thief or worse!  Virginia . . ."

"Theory!  It is no theory.  It is an established, undeniable, and undenied fact!  It has occurred
time and again, physicians have observed, have made cures!  Can't you see now, Rod Norton?
Won't you see?"

She was upon her feet, her hands clasped before her, her eyes shining, her figure tense, her
cheeks stained with the color of her excitement.

"I don't care whether Patten is a physician or not," she ran on.  "He is a bungler.  It is
a sheer wonder he did not let you die.  You told me yourself that he attributed the second
wound to your fall and that you knew that Moraga had struck you a terrible blow with his gun-barrel.
Patten did not treat that wound; he cared for the lesser injury like a fool and allowed the
major one to take care of itself. And the result . . .  Oh, dear God!  Think of what might
have happened. If any one but me had learned what I have learned to-night."

He rose with her, stood still, regarding her with eyes like drills. Then he shook his head.

"You are wrong, Virginia, dead wrong," he told her with quiet emphasis. "You have called me
a thief?  Well, perhaps I am.  You have given your explanation; let me give mine."

He paused, shaping the matter in mind.  His face was stern and very, very grave.  Presently,
his lowered voice guarded against any chance ears, he continued.

"I lay on my bed a week, a long, utterly damnable week.  I could do nothing but think.  So
I thought, as I told you, of everything.  Most of all I thought of you, Virginia Page.  Shall
I tell you why?  No; we'll let that go until we understand each other.  I thought of myself,
of my life, of my eternal striving with Jim Galloway.  Some day I should get Galloway or he
would get me.  In either case, what good? Was not Galloway a wiser man than I?  He took what
he wanted; I merely wasted my time chasing after such bigger men as he.  If he desired a thousand
dollars or five, ten thousand, he went out for it like a man and took it.  Why shouldn't he?
Oh, I tell you I had the time to dwell upon the little meaningless words of honesty and dishonesty,
honor and dishonor, and all of their progeny and forebears!  They are empty; empty, I tell
you, Virginia!  When I stood on my feet again I was a free man.  I knew it then, I know it
now.  Free, I tell you.  Free, most of all from shackles of empty ideas.  What I wanted I would
take."

She looked at him helplessly, his dominant vigor for the moment seeming a thing not to be restricted
or tamed.

"What you have done," she told him gently, "is to find argument to bolster up impulse.  That
is generally very easy to do, isn't it?  If one wants a thing, it is not hard convincing himself
that it is right that he should have it."

"At least I have decided sanely what I wanted, there is no call for hospitals."

"You sustained a fracture of the skull.  That fracture had improper treatment.  It is a wonder
you did not die.  The wound healed and there remains a pressure of a bit of bone upon the brain.
Until that pressure is removed by an operation you are doomed to be a criminal.  A kleptomaniac,"
she said steadily, "if not much worse."

"I believe that you mean what you say.  You are just mistaken, that is all.  I'd know if there
were anything physically wrong."

She came closer, laid her hand upon his arm, and lifted her eyes pleadingly to his.

"I have had the best of medical training," she said slowly.  "I have specialized in brain disorders,
interested in that branch of my work until I decided to bring Elmer out here.  I know what
I am saying. Will you at least promise to do as I ask?  Have a thorough examination by a specialist?
And have the operation if he advises it?"

"Such an operation is a serious matter?"

"Yes.  It must be.  But think . . ."

"A man might die under the hands of the surgeon?"

"Yes.  There is always the danger, there is always the chance of death resulting from any but
the most minor of operations.  But you are not the man to be afraid, Rod Norton.  I know that."

"You say that you have specialized In this sort of thing."  He was probing for her thoughts
with keen, narrowed eyes.  "Would you be willing to perform that operation for me?"

She shrank back suddenly, her hand dropping from his arm.

"No," she cried.  "No, no."

He smiled triumphantly.

"Then we'll let it go for a while.  If you wouldn't care to do it, afraid that I might die
under your knife, I guess I don't want it done at all.  I am quite content with things as they
are.  I see the way to gain the ends I desire; I am gaining them; if there is a brain pressure,
well, I'm quite ready to thank God and Moraga for it!  Which you may take as absolutely final,
Dr. Page!"

She was beaten then and she knew it.  She went back to her chair in a sort of bewildered despair,
her hands dropping idly to her lap.

"It would be just as well," he said presently, "if I left before any one came in.  Before I
go, do you mind telling me what you mean to do? Shall you denounce me?  Are you going to spread
your suspicions abroad?"

"What do you leave me to do?  Have I the right to sit still and say nothing?  You would go
on as you have begun; you would commit fresh crimes.  In spite of your 'two essentials' you
would be led to kill a man sooner or later.  Or you yourself would be killed.  Have I the right
to allow all of that to continue?"

"Then you have decided to accuse me?"

"It is so hard to decide anything.  You make it so hard; can't you see that you do? . . . 
But, after all, my part is clear; if you will consent to an examination and an operation I
will say nothing of what has happened.  If you won't do that . . . you will drive me to tell
what I know."

"Our trails divide to-night, then?  I had hoped for better than that, Virginia."

Though her cheeks flushed, she held her eyes steadily upon his.

"I, too, had hoped for better than that," she confessed, finding this no time for faltering.
"I should continue to hope if you would just do your part."

He came a swift step toward her.  Then he stopped suddenly, his hands falling to his sides.
But the light in his eyes did not diminish.

"Denounce me to-morrow, if you wish," he said slowly, indifferently it seemed to her.  "Accept
my promise that I will attempt no theft of more gold to-night; give me this one last chance
to talk with you.  Before some one comes, come out with me.  You are not afraid of me; you
admit that I am sane.  Then let us ride together.  And let me talk with you freely.  Will you,
Virginia?  Will you do that one favor for me?"

The high desire was upon her to accede to his request; her calmer judgment forbade it.  But
to-night was to-night; to-morrow would be to-morrow.  And, after all, in her talk with him,
she might save the man to himself and to his truer manhood.

But even that hope was less than her desire when she answered him.

"Have my horse saddled," she said.  "I'll let Struve think I have to make a call at Las Estrellas.
I'll be out in five minutes."

He thanked her with his eyes, opened the hall door, and went out.

CHAPTER XIX

DEADLOCK

Virginia, having changed swiftly to her riding-togs, took up her little black emergency kit,
which would lend an air of business urgency to her nocturnal ride with Norton, and stepped
out into the hall.

"There's a call for you from Las Estrellas," said Struve, appearing from the front, whence
his voice had come to her mingled with the excited tones of a Mexican.  "Tony Garcia has been
hurt; pretty badly, I expect.  His brother says that Tony got his hand caught in some kind
of machinery he was fooling with late this afternoon and crushed so that it's all but torn off."

Into the light cast by the hotel porch-lamp Norton, leading Persis, rode around the corner
of the building.

"I was just going out," said Virginia.  "But I'll go on this case first.  Mr. Norton is riding
with me.  Please ask him to wait while I get my other bag."

In her room again, the lamp lighted on her table, she stood a moment frowning thoughtfully
into vacancy.  Then with a quick shake of the head she snatched up the two other bags which
might be needed in treating Tony's hurt and again hastened out.  Norton bending from his saddle
took them from her.  As Struve relinquished into her gantletted hands the reins of Persis's
bridle she swung lightly up to the mare's back.

"The poor fellow must be suffering all kinds of torture," she said as Norton reined in with
her.  "Let's hurry."

He offered no answer as they clattered out of San Juan and turned out across the level lands
toward Las Estrellas.  So, as upon another night when speeding upon a similar errand, they
rode for a long time in silence.  Again they two alone were pushing out into the dark and the
vast silence that was broken only by the soft thudding of their own horses' hoofs and the creak
of saddle leather and jingle of spur and bit chains.

"You wanted to talk with me?" suggested the girl after fifteen minutes of wordless restraint
between them.

"Yes," he answered.  "But not now.  That is, if you will give me a further chance after you
have done what you can for poor old Tony.  You will hardly need to stay at Las Estrellas all
night, I imagine.  When we leave you can listen to me.  Do you mind?"

"No," she said slowly.  "I don't mind.  I'd rather it was then.  You and I have a good bit
to think about before we do any talking.  Haven't we?"

They fell silent again.  The soft beauty of the night over the southern desert lands . . .
and there is no other earthly beauty like it . . . touched the girl's soul now as it had never
done before; perhaps, similarly, it disturbed shadows in the man's.  She was distressed by
the position in which she found herself, and the night's infinite quiet and utter peace was
grateful to her.  As she left the hotel her thoughts were in chaos; she was caught in a fearsome
labyrinth whence there appeared no escape.  Now, though no way out suggested itself, still
the stars were shining.

At last the twinkling lights of Las Estrellas, seeming at first fallen stars caught in the
mesquite branches, swam into view.  Plainly Tony's accident had stimulated much local interest;
among the few straggling houses men came and went, while a knot of women, children, and countless
mongrel dogs had congregated just outside of the hut where the injured man lay.  A brush fire
in the street crackled right merrily, its sparks dancing skyward.

"You promise me," said Norton as they drew their horses down to a trot, "not to say anything
until we can have had time to talk?"

"I promise," she said wearily.

She entered the sufferer's room first, Norton delaying to tie the horses and lift down the
instrument cases from the saddle-strings.  She stopped abruptly just beyond the threshold;
the smell of chloroform was heavy upon the air, Tony lay whitefaced upon a table, Caleb Patten
with coat off and sleeves rolled up was bending over him.

"Oh, señorita!" cried a woman, hurrying forward, her hands twisting nervously in her apron.
And a torrential outpouring in Spanish greeted the mystified Virginia.

"I thought that I was wanted here," she said, looking about her at the four or five grave faces.
"Tony's brother came for me."

One of the men shambled forward to explain.  "Tony want you," he said quickly.  "Tony ver'
bad hurt.  Dr. Patten come in Las Estrellas by accident, he say got to cut off the arm, can't
wait too long or Tony die.  He just beginnin' now."

The woman, who, it appeared was Tony's wife and the mother of two of the ragged children out
by the fire, joined her voice eagerly to the man's.  He translated.

"Eloisa say she thank God you come; Tony want you, she want you. Patten charge one hundred
dollar an'. . . ."  He shrugged eloquently. "She say you do for Tony; you do better than Patten."

Virginia's eyes flashed upon Patten.  He came a step toward her, his attitude half belligerent.

"The man has to be operated upon immediately," he said sharply.  "He was hurt in the afternoon
out on the end of the ranch; has been all day getting in; fainted half a dozen times, I guess.
The arm has to come off at the elbow."

"Thank you," returned Virginia quietly, going to the table.  "I'll take the case now, Dr. Patten."

"You?" Patten laughed, his eyes jeering.  "You operate?  Do you think that they want you to
cut a skein of silk with a pair of scissors?  Cut off a man's arm . . . how far would you go
before you fainted?"

"That'll be about all, Patten," came Norton's voice sternly from the door.  "This is Dr. Page's
case.  Clear out."

"Thank you, Mr. Norton," said Virginia quickly.  She was already making an examination of the
blood covered arm and hand, and did not look around.  "And please clear the room, will you?
Let Tony's wife stay, that is all.  Eloisa."

The woman came forward, her eyes wide and frightened.  Virginia smiled at her reassuringly.

"No muy malo," she said in the few Spanish words which she could summon for the occasion from
those she had picked up from the desert people.  "Muy bueno manana.  And now get me some warm
water . . . agua caliente.  Mr. Norton, if you will open my instrument case . . . no; the other
one.  And then stand by to help with the anaesthetic if Patten hasn't already given him enough
to keep him asleep all night!"

She gave her directions concisely and was obeyed.  Norton put the last of the undesired onlookers
out of the door, closed it after them, found another lamp and some candles, did all that he
could think of to help and all that was asked of him.  Eloisa, having brought the water, withdrew
to a corner and kept her fascinated eyes upon Virginia's face and stubbornly away from her
husband's.

Virginia, when she had completed a very thorough examination, turned toward Norton, her eyes
blazing.

"Patten has no more right to an M.D. after his name than you have," she cried angrily.  "Not
so much, for he hasn't even any brains!  Cut the man's arm off!  Why, there is only a simple
fracture above the wrist which won't cause a bit of trouble.  The hand is another matter; but
even it isn't half as badly mangled as it looks. . . .  The second and third fingers are terribly
crushed; they've got to come off.  We might as well do it now, while he is already under the
chloroform. . . . Tell Eloisa just how matters stand and then send her out."

Eloisa, already prepared for the greater operation, gasped her gratitude for the lesser and
allowed herself to be gently thrust from the room.  Then Norton came back to the table, his
eyes wonderingly upon Virginia.  He knew that she was capable; he had read that fact the first
day when he had seen her hands.  But it struck him as rather unusual that a girl, any girl
no matter what her training, should take hold as she was doing.

And as she selected her instruments, laid them out upon a bit of sterilized gauze upon a chair,
cleansed her hands and prepared to operate he began to feel a sense of utter confidence in
her.  Rapidly his own anger rose at the thought of the crime Patten would have perpetrated.

Tony Garcia, when in due time his consciousness came back to him bringing the attendant dizzy
nausea in its wake, looked down at his side curiously, wondering how it would be to go without
an arm.  And when his Eloisa told him. . . .

"We are going to sell our cow and the goats to-morrow!" vowed Tony faintly.  "And give her
all the money!"

"Si, si, Tony," wept the wife.

Whereupon the small children, who were teaching the goats to pull a wagon, set up a wail of
grief and rebellion.

It struck both Virginia and Norton as a shade odd that Patten should be still in Las Estrellas
when they rode out of it long after midnight. They saw him standing in the doorway of the one
still lighted building of the village as they galloped past.  It was the Three Star saloon.
Patten's horse was tied in front of it.  Since Patten neither drank nor played at dice or cards
here might have been matter to ponder on.  But in neither mind was there place now for any
interest other than that which again held them silent and constrained.

Las Estrellas lost behind them, they drew their horses down into a rocking trot, then to a
slow walk.  Virginia rode with her head up, her eyes upon the field of stars.  Her face, as
Norton kept close to her side, looked very white in the starlight.  He would have given much
to have seen her eyes when a little later he began to talk.  And she was conscious of a kindred
wish.

"Look yonder," she said.  "The late moon is coming up.  There will be a little more light then
and. . . .  And I want to look at you, Rod Norton, while we thresh it out."

The thin curved sliver of silver thrusting up over the edge of the world in the east, ghostly
and pale, added little to the throbbing gleam of the stars; but the waiting for it had put
Las Estrellas a mile behind them, had set them alone together out in the heart of the silences,
had given them that last excuse to be had to set back an evil moment.  Virginia, with a sigh,
brought her eyes down from the glitter of the wide heavens and sought Norton's.

"I am afraid," she said listlessly, "that there is no way out for us, Rod Norton."

"There is a way!" he began quickly

"There is no way unless you do what I say.  If you would only give me your word to take the
stage to-morrow, to go to a competent surgeon, to submit to the operation.  If you would only
give me your word. . . ."

"I give you my word," he said sharply, "that that is just the thing which I will never do.
Virginia, breathe deep, fill your lungs with the wonder of the night; realize what it means
to live; think what it means to die!  You say that I am not afraid of death; well, maybe not
if it comes in a guise I have grown up to be familiar with.  But to lie as I saw Tony Garcia
lying just now, powerless, unconscious, without will or knowledge of what was coming to me,
and to let a man cut into me . . .  I'd rather die, I think, standing upon my two feet and
fighting it out with a gun!  You would go on and tell me that the chances would be highly in
favor of my recovery; and yet you would admit that the danger would be grave."

"Then you are afraid, after all?  That is it?  That holds you back?" She found it hard to believe
that he was telling her his true emotion.

"I am merely measuring the chances," he said steadily.  "I am satisfied with life as I find
it; I do not believe that there is anything wrong with me; I see at least the possibility of
death and nothing to be gained by submitting to an operation."

"Then," she said again wearily, "there is no way out."

"But there is!  My way, not the one you have thought of.  You have stumbled upon a thing which
you must forget; that is all.  Give me the free swing to finish Jim Galloway, to complete certain
other undertakings.  Promise me that you will do this; in return I will promise you not to . . . ."

And here he hesitated.

"Not to commit another theft?"  She set the matter squarely before him. "Can you promise that,
Rod Norton?  Could you keep the promise were it once made?"

"Yes."

"No!  You could not.  You don't understand or you won't understand. You would obey the impulse
which would come just as certainly as the sun will rise and set again.  So I can neither accept
your promise . . . nor give you mine."

"You will tell what you have guessed?"

"Rather what I know!  Even if you were my own brother. . . ."

"Or your lover?" he demanded, a challenge in his voice.

"Or my lover.  For his sake if not for the sake of others."

For a little while he made no answer.  Again there was absolute silence between him, a troubled
silence filled with pain.  Then suddenly he leaned close to her, threw out his hand for Persis's
rein, jerked both horses back to a fretful standstill.

"Can't you see what you force me to do?" he demanded half angrily.  "Do you picture what your
denunciation would do for me?  Do you think that I can let you make it?"

His face was so near hers that she could see it clearly in the pallid light.  He could see
hers and that it was lifted fearlessly.

"How will you stop me?" she asked quietly.

"I will finish Jim Galloway out of hand," he told her savagely.  "It will no longer be the
representative of the law against the lawbreaker; it will just be Norton and Galloway, both
men!  I will accomplish the one other matter I have planned.  Both will require not over three
or four days.  During that time . . .  I tell you, Virginia, I have grown into a free man,
a man who does what he wants to do, who takes what he wants to take, who is not bound by flimsy
shackles of other men's codes.  During those three or four days I shall see that you do no
talking!"

Once more, her voice quickened, she asked:

"How will you stop me?"

"We have come to a deadlock; argument does no good.  Either I must yield to you or you to me.
There is too much at stake to allow of a man being squeamish.  I don't care much for the job,
but by high Heaven I am of no mind to watch life run by through the bars of a penitentiary.
After all action becomes simplified when a crisis comes; doesn't it?  There is just one answer,
just one way out.  You will come with me, now.  I will put you where you will have no opportunity
to do any talking for the few days in which I shall finish what I have to do."  His hand on
Persis's rein drew the two horses still closer together.  "Give me your promise, Virginia;
or come with me!"

Her quick spurt of anger rose, flared, and dwindled away like a little flame extinguished by
a splash of rain; the tears were stinging her eyes almost before the last word.  For she felt
that here was no Roderick Norton speaking, but rather a bit of bone pressing upon the delicate
machinery which is a man's brain.

"Where would you take me?" she asked faintly.

"To the King's Palace," he answered bitterly.  "Where we had one perfect, happy day, Virginia;
where, I had hoped, we would have other perfect days.  Oh, girl, can't you see," and his voice
went thrilling through her, "can't you see what I have hoped, what I have dreamed. . . ."

"You might still hope," she told him steadily.  "You might still dream."

"I will!"  His eyes shone at her, his erect form outlined against the black of the earth and
the gleam of the stars was eloquent of mastery. "There will come a time when you will see life
as I see it. . . .  And now, for the last time, will you give me your promise, Virginia?  It
is forced upon you; you will be blameless in giving it.  Will you do so?"

She only shook her head, her lips trembling, not trusting her voice. . . .  And then, in a
sort of daze, she knew that they had turned off to the left, that no longer was San Juan ahead
of them, that they were riding toward the gloomy bulwark of the mountains.

CHAPTER XX

FLUFF AND BLACK BILL

Fluff and Black Bill were quarrelling.

Elmer, while Norton and Virginia were on their way from San Juan to Las Estrellas, had dropped
in at the hotel to see his sister.  He found upon her office table the card which she always
left for him; this merely informed him that she was "out on a case at Las Estrellas." Elmer
had come for her purposing to suggest a call upon the Engles. For not yet had he summoned the
hardihood to present himself alone at Florrie's home.  Now, disgruntled, seeing plainly that
Virginia would never get back in time, he went out on the veranda and took solace from the
pipe to which he had grown fairly accustomed.  To him came the girl of whom he was thinking.
"Hello, Fluff," he said from the shadows.

"Hello, Black Bill," she greeted him.  "Where's Virgie?"

"Gone," he informed her, waving his pipe.  "On a case to Las Estrellas. I'm waiting for her.
Did you want to see her?"

Florrie, coming down the veranda to him, giggled.

"No," she told him flippantly.  "I'm looking for the Emperor of China. I never was so lonesome.
. . ."

"So'm I," said Elmer.  He pushed a chair forward with his foot.  "Sit down and we'll wait for
her.  And I'll go in and bring out a couple of bottles of ginger ale or something."

"Will she be back real soon?" asked Florrie pretending to hesitate.

"Sure," he assured her positively.

"All right then." Florrie with a great rustling of skirts sat down. "But you must be nice to
me, Black Bill."

"It's always you who starts it," he muttered at her.  "I'd be friends if you would.  What's
the good of spatting like two kids, anyway?"

"We're really not kids any longer, are we?" she agreed demurely.  "I feel terribly grown up
sometimes, don't you?"

From which point they got along swimmingly for perhaps five minutes longer than it had ever
been possible for them to talk together without "starting something."  Elmer, very emphatic
in his own mind concerning his matured status, yearned for her to understand it as he did.
With such purpose clearly before him . . . and before her, too, for that matter, since Miss
Florrie had a keen little comprehension of her own . . . he spoke largely of himself and his
blossoming plans.  He was a vaquero, to begin with; he had ridden fifty miles yesterday on
range business; he was making money; he was putting part of that money away in Mr. Engle's
bank.  There was a little ranch on the rim of Engle's big holding which belonged to an old
half-breed; Elmer meant to acquire it himself one of these days.  And before so very long,
too.  Mr. Engle had been approached and was looking into it, might be persuaded to advance
the couple of thousand dollars for the property, taking as security a mortgage until Elmer
could have squared for it.  Then Black Bill would begin stocking his place, a cow now, a horse,
another cow, and so on.

He had launched himself valiantly into his tale.  But at a certain point he began to swallow
and catch at his words and smoke fast between sentences.  He had located a dandy spot for a
house . . . the jolliest little spring of cold water you ever saw . . . a knoll with big trees
upon it.

"We'll make up a party with Virginia and Norton some day and ride out there," he said abruptly.
"I . . . I'd like to have you see it, Fluff."

She was tremulously delighted.  She sensed the nearest thing to an out-and-out proposal which
had ever sung in her ears.  She leaned forward eagerly, her hands clasped to keep them from
trembling.  She was sixteen, he eighteen . . . and she had his assurance of a moment ago that
they were no longer just "kids."  And then and there their so-long-delayed quarrel began. 
Just at the wrong time, after the time-honored fashion of quarrels.  He was ready to twine
the vine about the veranda posts of the house on the knoll where the spring and the big trees
were, she was ready to plant the fig-tree.  Then she had glimpsed something just too funny
for anything in the idea of Elmer raising pigs . . . for he had gone on to that, sagely anticipating
a high market another season . . . and she laughed at him and all unintentionally wounded his
feelings.  In a flash he was Black Bill again and on his mettle, ready with the quick retort
stung from him; and she, parrying his thrust, was at once Fluff, the mercuric.  The spat was
on . . . they would call it a spat to-morrow if to-morrow were kind to them . . . and Elmer's
ranch and house and cow, horse and pigs were laughed to scorn.

Florrie departed leaving her cruellest laughter to ring in his ears. This might have been a
repetition of any one of a dozen episodes familiar to them both, but never, perhaps, had Elmer's
ears burned so or Florrie's heart so disturbed her with its beating.  For, she thought regretfully
as she hurried out into the street, they had been getting along so nicely. . . .

She had no business out alone at this time of night and she knew it. So she hurried on, anxious
to get home before her father, who was returning late from a visit to one of his ranches. 
Abreast of the Casa Blanca she slowed up, looking in curiously.  Then, as again she was hastening
on, she heard Jim Galloway's deep voice in a quiet "Good evening, Miss Florence."

"Good evening!" gasped Florrie aloud.  And "Oh!" said Florrie under her breath.  For Galloway's
figure had separated itself from the shadows at the side of his open door and had come out
into the street, while Galloway was saying in a matter-of-fact way: "I'll see you home."

She wanted to run and could not.  She hung a moment balancing upon a high heel in indecision.
Galloway stepped forward swiftly, coming to her side.  "Oh, dear," the inner Florrie was saying.
A glance over her shoulder showed her Black Bill standing out in front of Struve's hotel. Well,
there were compensations.

She started to hurry on, and had Jim Galloway been less sure of himself, troubled with the
diffidence of youth as was Elmer, he must have either given over his purpose or else fairly
run to keep up with her.  But being Jim Galloway, he laid a gentle but none the less restraining
hand upon her arm.

"Please," he said quietly.  "I want to talk with you.  May I?"

Florrie's arm burned where he had touched her.  She was all in a flutter, half frightened and
the other half flattered.  A shade more leisurely they walked on toward the cottonwoods.  Here,
in the shadows, Galloway stopped and Florrie, although beginning to tremble, stopped with him.

"Men have given me a black name here," he was saying as he faced her. "They've made me somewhat
worse than I am.  I feel that I have few friends, certainly very few of my own class.  I like
to think of you as a friend.  May I?"

It was distinctly pleasant to have a big man like Galloway, a man whom for good or for bad
the whole State knew, pleading with her.  It gave a new sort of assurance to her theory that
she was "grown up"; it added to her importance in her own eyes.

"Why, yes," said Florrie.

"I am going away," he continued gravely.  "For just how long I don't know.  A week, perhaps
a month, maybe longer.  It is a business matter of considerable importance, Florence.  Nor
is it entirely without danger.  It will take me down below the border, and an American in Mexico
right now takes his life entirely into his own hands.  You know that, don't you?"

"Then why do you go?"

Galloway smiled down at her.

"If I held back every time a danger-signal was thrown out," he said lightly, "I wouldn't travel
very far.  Oh, I'll come back all right; a man may go through fire itself and return if he
has the incentive which I have."  His tone altered subtly.  Florrie started.

"But before I go," went on Galloway, "I am going to tell you something which I think you know
already.  You do, don't you, Florence?"

She would not have been Florrie at all, but some very different, unromantic, and unimaginative
creature, had she failed of comprehension.  Jim Galloway was actually making love to her!

"What do you mean, Mr. Galloway?" she managed to stammer.

"I mean that what I am telling you is for your ears alone.  I am placing a confidence in you,
the greatest confidence a man can place in a girl.  Or in a woman, Florence.  I am trusting
that what I say will remain just between you and me for the present. . . .  When I come back
I will be no longer just Jim Galloway of the Casa Blanca, but Galloway of one of the biggest
grants in Mexico, with mile after mile of fertile lands, with a small army of servants, vaqueros,
and retainers, a sort of ruler of my own State!  It sounds like a fairy-tale, Florence, but
it is the sober truth made possible by conditions below the border.  My estates will run down
to the blue water of the Gulf; I shall have my own fleet of ocean-going yachts; there is a
port upon my own land. There will be a home overlooking the sea like a king's palace.  Will
you think of all that while I am gone?  Will you think of me a little, too?  Will you remember
that my little kingdom is crying out for its queen? . . .  No; I am not asking you to answer
me now.  I am just asking that you hold this as our secret until I come back.  Until I come
back for you! . . .  I shall stand here until you reach your home," he broke off suddenly.
"Good night, my dear."

"Good night," said Florence faintly, a little dazed by all that he had said to her.  Then,
running through the shadows to her home, she was thinking of the boy who had wished to propose
to her and of the man who had done so; of Elmer's little home upon the knoll surrounded by
a cow, a horse, and some pigs . . . and of a big house like a palace looking out to sea across
the swaying masts of white-sailed, sea-going yachts!

CHAPTER XXI

A CRISIS

Like Norton, Virginia found life simplifying itself in a crisis.  Upon three hundred and sixty
days or more of the average year each individual has before him scores of avenues open to his
thoughts or to his act; he may turn wheresoever he will.  But in the supreme moments of his
life, with brief time for hesitation granted him, he may be forced to do one of two things:
he must leap back or plunge forward to escape the destiny rushing down upon him like a speeding
engine threatening him who has come to stand upon the crossing.  Now Virginia saw clearly that
she must submit to Norton's mastery and remain silent in the King's Palace or she must seek
to escape and tell what she knew or . . .  Was there a remaining alternative?  If so it must
present itself as clearly as the others.  Action was stripped down to essentials, bared to
its component elements.  True vision must necessarily result, since no side issues cluttered
the view.

She sat upon a saddle-blanket upon the rock floor of the main chamber of the series of ancient
dwelling-rooms, staring at the fire which Norton had builded against a wall where it might
not be seen from without.  The horses were in the meadow down by the stream; she and Norton
had tethered them among the trees where they were fairly free from the chance of being seen.
Norton was coming up, mounting the deep-worn steps in the cliff side.  He had gone for water;
he had not been out of sight nor away five minutes.  And yet when she looked up to see him
coming through the irregular doorway she had decided.

She saw in him both the man and the gentleman.  Her anger had died down long ago, smothered
in the ashes of her distress; now she summoned to the fore all that she might in extenuation
of what he did.  She did not blame him for the crimes which she knew he had committed because
she was so confident that the chief crime of all had been the act resulting from Caleb Patten's
abysmal ignorance.  Nor now could she blame Norton that, embarked upon this flood of his life,
he saw himself forced to make her his prisoner for a few hours.  It was a man's birthright
to protect himself, to guard his freedom.  And her heart gave him high praise that toward her
he acted with all deference, that with things as they were, while he was man enough to hold
her here, he was too much the gentleman to make love to her.  Would she have resisted, would
she have opposed calm argument against a hot avowal?  She did not know.

"Virginia," he said gravely as he slumped down upon the far side of the fire, "I feel the brute.
But . . ."

Yes, she had decided, fully decided, whether if be for better or for worse.  Now she surprised
him with one of her quick, bright, friendly smiles while she interrupted:

"Let us make the best of a bad situation," she said swiftly.  "I am not unhappy right now;
I have no wish to run half-way to meet any unhappiness which may be coming our way.  You are
not the brute toward me; what you do, I do not so much as censure you for.  I am not going
to quarrel with you; were I in your boots I imagine I'd do just exactly as you are doing. 
I hope I'd be as nice about it, too.  And now, before we drop the subject for good and all,
let me say this: no matter what I do, should it even be the betraying you into the hands of
your enemies, to put it quite tragically, I want you to know that I wish you well and that
is why I do it.  Can you understand me?"

"Yes," he said slowly.  "It's sweet of you, Virginia.  If you got my gun and shot my head off,
I don't know who should blame you.  I shouldn't!" he concluded with a forced attempt to match
her smile.

"Then we understand each other?  As long as each does the best he can see his way to do, the
other finds no fault?"  And when he nodded she rose quickly and came to him, putting out her
hand as he rose.  "Rod Norton," she said simply, and her eyes shone steady and clear into his,
"I wish you the best there is.  I think we should both pray a little to God to help us to-night.
. . .  And now, if you will run up to your Treasure Chamber and bring down the coffee, I'll
promise to be here when you get back.  And to make you a good hot drink; I feel the need of
it and so do you."

He went out without an answer, his face grave and troubled again.  As her eyes followed him
they were no longer gay but wistful, and then filled with a sadness which she had not shown
to him, and then suddenly wet.  But before he had gone half a dozen steps from the door she
dashed a hasty hand across her eyes and went swiftly to the smallest of the three black leather
cases he had brought up here after her.

"This is the one way out, Rod Norton!" she whispered.  "The one way out if God is with us."

Her quick fingers sought and found the tiny phial with its small white tablets . . . labelled
Hyoscine . . . and secreted it in her bosom. She was laying fresh twigs upon the blaze when
he came back with the coffee-pot, can of coffee, and a tin cup.  She greeted him with another
quick smile.  He saw that her cheeks were flushed rosily, that there was subdued excitement
in her eyes.  And yet matters just as they were would sufficiently explain these phenomena
without causing him to quest farther.  He thought merely that he had never seen her so delightfully
pretty.

"Virginia Page," he told her as his own eyes grew bright with the new light leaping up into
them, "some day . . ."

"Sh!" she commanded, her color deepened.  "Let us wait until that day comes.  Now you just
obey orders; lie there and smoke while I make the coffee."

He wanted to wait on her, but when she insisted he withdrew to the wall a few feet away, sat
down, filled his pipe, and watched her.  And while he filled his eyes with her he marvelled
afresh.  For it seemed to him that her mood was one of unqualified happiness.  She did all
of the talking, her words came in a ceaseless bright flow, she laughed readily and often, her
eyes were dancing, the warm color stood high in her cheeks.  That her heart was beating like
mad, that the intoxication of an intent he could not read had swept into her brain, that she
was vastly more in the mood to weep than to smile . . . all of this lay hidden to him behind
her woman's wit.  For, having decided, there would be no going back.

With the coffee boiling in the old black and spoutless pot from Norton's cache in the Treasure
Chamber, she poured what was left of the ground coffee from its tin to the flat surface of
a bit of stone.  This tin was to serve Norton as his cup.

"It's to be our night-cap," she laughed at him as she put the improvised cup by the other.
"I refuse to sit up any later; a saddle-blanket for bunk, and then to sleep.  That is my room
yonder, isn't it?"  She nodded toward the black entrance to the second of the chambers of the
King's Palace.  "And you will sleep here?  Well, while the coffee cools, I'm going to make
my bed."  She carried her blanket on past him, was gone into the yawning darkness, was back
in a moment.

"My bed's ready," she told him gayly.  "This kind of housekeeping just suits me!  Now for the
coffee. . . .  Rod Norton, will you do as you are told or not?  You are to sit still and let
me wait on you; who's hostess here, I'd like to know?"

While out of his sight she had slipped one of the hyoscine tablets into her palm; now, as she
poured the ink-black beverage, she let it drop into the tin can which she presented to Norton.

"Don't say it doesn't taste right!" she admonished him in a voice in which at last he detected
the nervous note.

He stood up, holding his coffee-can in his hand, meeting her strained levity with a deep gravity.

"Virginia," he began.

"It's too late to cut in on my monologue!" she cried gayly.  "Pledge me in the drink I have
made for you, Mr. Norton!  Just say: 'Virginia, here's looking at you!'  Or: 'I wish you well
in all that you undertake.'  Or: 'For all that you have said to me, for whatever you may say
or do in the future, I forgive you!'  That's all."

"Virginia," he said gently, "I love you, my dear."

She laughed nervously.

"That's the nice way to say everything all at once!"  He saw that her hand shook, that a little
of her coffee spilled, and that again she grew steady.  "Now our night-cap and good night!"

She drank hurriedly.  Thereafter she yawned and made her little pretense of increased drowsiness.

"It's been such a long day," she said.  "You'll forgive me if I tumble right straight into
sleepy-land?"

Again they said good night and she left him, going down among the eerie dancing shadows to
her own quarter, drawing his moody eyes after her. When she had gone, he threw down his own
blanket across the main entrance of the King's Palace, filled his pipe again, and sat staring
out into the night.

The fire cast up its red flare spasmodically, licked at the last of the dead branches which,
rolling apart, burned out upon the rock floor. The darkness once more blotted out all detail
saving the few smouldering coals, the knobs of stone in the small flickering circles of light,
the quiet form of the man silhouetted against the lesser dark of the night without.  Virginia,
rigid and motionless at the spot to which she had stolen noiselessly, watched him breathlessly.

For only a little he sat smoking.  Then, as though he experienced something of that weariness
of which she had made pretense, he laid his pipe aside and stretched out upon his blanket,
leaning upon an elbow. She heard him sigh, vaguely made out when he let his head slip down
upon an arm, saw that he had grown still, and was lying stretched out across the main threshold.

Now she must stand motionless while every fibre of her being demanded action; now she must
curb impetuosity to the call of caution.  As the seconds passed, all but insupportable in their
tedious slowness, she stood rigid and tense, waiting.  But soon she knew that the drug had
had its will with him, that he was steeped in deep sleep, that no longer must she wait, that
now at length she might act.

Carrying her saddle-blanket she came to him and stood quietly looking down into his upturned
face.  At last she could let the tears burst into her eyes unchecked, now she could suddenly
go down on her knees beside him, for an instant laying her cheek lightly against his in the
first caress.  Would it be the last?  He stirred a little and sighed again.  She drew back,
still upon her knees again breathlessly rigid. But his stupor clung heavily to him, and she
knew that it would hold him thus for hours.

A score of burning questions clamoring in her mind she disposed of briefly, since time was
of the essence.

"If I let you have your way, Rod Norton," she whispered, "you will go on from crime to tragedy.
If I hand you over to the law, I will be betraying you for no end; for your type of man finds
the way to break jail and so force his own hand to further violence.  There is the one way
out. . . .  And God help me to succeed.  God forgive me if I fail!"

She stole by him and stepped upon the outer ledge.  She was leaving him helpless . . . the
thought presented itself that she would have another thing to answer for if one of the many
men with such cause to hate him should come upon him thus.  Well, that was but one of the more
remote chances she must take.  There was scant enough likelihood that any one should come here
before she could race into Las Estrellas and back.

Then it was that she saw Patten.  She did not know at first that it was Patten, but just that
within a few feet of her upon the ledge which she must travel to the steps a man was standing,
his body jerking back, pressed against the rocks as he saw her.  She drew back swiftly, her
blood in riotous tumult.

But now, above aught else, the one thought in her mind was that there was no time for loitering,
that the dawn would come all too soon, that there must be no delay.  She stooped quickly and
drew from its holster Norton's heavy revolver.  Her saddle-blanket over her left arm, the gun
gripped in her right hand, she was once more upon the ledge, moving cautiously toward the figure
seen a moment ago, gone now.

That it was Patten she knew only when she had gone down the steps and had overtaken him there.
Retreating thus far, reassured when he had made out that it was the girl alone, he waited for
her.  And as she demanded nervously, "Who is it?" it was Patten's disagreeable laugh which
answered her.

"So," he jeered at her, "this is the sort of thing you do when you are supposed to be out on
a case all night!"

Patten here!  Had God sent him . . . or the devil?  His insult she passed over.  She was not
thinking of herself right now, of convention, of wagging tongues.  She was just seeking to
understand how this latest incident might simplify or make more complex her problem.

"I've had my suspicions all along," he laughed evilly.  "To-night I followed and made sure.
And now, my fine little white dove, what have you to say for yourself?"

Might she use Patten?  She was but now on her way to Las Estrellas for aid.  She would operate
herself, she would take that upon herself, with no more regard for ethics than for Patten's
gossiping tongue.  She believed that she could do it successfully; at the least she must make
the attempt, though Norton died under her hand.  The right?  She had the right!  The right
because she loved him, because he loved her, because his whole future was at stake.  But she
must have assistance so that she submit him to no needless danger, so that she give him every
chance under such circumstances as these.  She would have brought a man from Las Estrellas,
she would have let him think what pleased him, just saying that Norton had met with an accident,
that an operation was necessary.  And now Patten was here.

Could she use him?

"You followed us?" she said, gaining time for her thoughts.

"Yes; I followed you.  I saw you come here.  I watched while he unsaddled, how he came up to
you.  What I could not see through the rock walls I could guess!  And now . . ."

"Well, now?" she repeated after him, so that Patten must have marvelled at her lack of emotion.
"Now what?"

"Now," he spat at her venomously, "I think I have found the fact to shut Roderick Norton's
blabbing mouth for him!"

"I don't understand . . ."

"You don't?  You mean that he hasn't done any talking to you about me?"

"Oh!"  And now suddenly she did understand.  "You mean how you are not Caleb Patten at all
but Charles?  How you are no physician but liable to prosecution for illegal practising?"

Could she use him or could she not?  That was what she was thinking, over and over.

"Where is he?" demanded Patten a little suspiciously.  "What is he doing?  What are you doing
out here alone?"

"He is asleep," she told him.

Patten laughed again.

"Your little parties are growing commonplace then!"

"Charles Patten," she cut in coolly, "I have stood enough of your insult.  Be still a moment
and let me think."

He stared at her but for a little; his own mind busy, was silent. Could she make use of this
blind instrument which fate had thrust into her hand?  She began to believe that she could.

"Charles Patten," she went on, a new vigor in her tone, "Mr. Norton knows enough concerning
you to make you a deal of trouble.  Just how long a term in the State prison he can get for
you I don't know. But . . ."

"Haven't I found the way to shut his mouth!" he said sharply.

"I think not.  Before your slanders could travel far we could have found Father Jose and have
been married.  But let me finish.  You have practised here for upward of two years, haven't
you?  You have made money, you have a ranch of your own.  That is one thing to keep in mind.
The other is that more than one of your patients have died.  I believe, Charles Patten, that
it would be a simple matter to have the district attorney convict you of murder.  That's the
second thing to remember."

Patten shifted uneasily.  Then she knew that it had been God who had sent him.  When he sought
to bluster, she cut him short.

"In the morning, as soon as there is light enough," she said, wondering at her own calmness,
"I am going to perform a capital operation upon Mr. Norton.  It will be without his knowledge
and consent.  If he lives and you will give up your practice and retire to your ranch or what
business pleases you, I will guarantee that he does not prosecute you for what has passed.
If he dies . . ."

"If he dies"--he snatched the words from her--"it will be murder!"

". . . you would be free from prosecution," she continued, quite as though he had made no interruption,
"I rather imagine that I should die, too.  And, as you say, I would be liable for murder. 
He is asleep now because I have drugged him.  I shall chloroform him before he wakes.  I should
have no defense in the law-courts.  Yes, it would be murder."

He drew a step back from her as though from one suddenly gone mad.

"What are you operating for?" he demanded.

"For your blunder," she said simply.  "And you are going to help me."

"Am I?" he jeered.  "Not by a damned sight!  If you think that I am going to let myself in
for that sort of thing . . ."

Until now he had not seen the gun in her hand.  Her quick gesture showed it to him.

"Charles Patten," she told him emphatically, "I am risking Mr. Norton's life; I am therefore
risking my own.  Understand what that means. Understand just what you have got to win or lose
by to-night's work. Consider that I pledge you my word not to implicate you in what you do;
that if worse came to worse, you could claim and I would admit that you were forced at the
point of a gun to do as I told you.  Oh, I can shoot straight!  And finally, I will shoot straight,
as God watches me, rather than let you go now and stop what I have undertaken!  Think of it
well, Charles Patten!"

Patten, being as weak of mind as he was pudgy of hand, having besides that peculiar form of
craft which is vouchsafed his type, furthermore more or less of a coward, saw matters quite
as Virginia wished him. Together they awaited the coming of the dawn.  The girl, realizing
to the uttermost what lay before her, forced herself to rest, lying still under the stars,
schooling herself to the steady-nerved action which was to have its supreme test.

Just before the dawn they had coffee and a bite to eat from Norton's little pack.  Close to
the drugged man they builded a rude low table by dragging the squared blocks of fallen stone
from their place by the wall.  Upon this Virginia placed the saddle-blankets, neatly folded.
Already Patten was showing signs of nervousness.  Looking into her face he saw that it was
white and drawn but very calm.  Patten was asking himself countless questions, many of them
impossible of answer yet. She was closing her mind to everything but the one supreme matter.

He helped her give the chloroform when she told him that there was sufficient light and that
she was ready.  He brought water, placed instruments, stood by to do what she told him.  His
nervousness had grown into fear; he started now and then, jerking about guiltily, as though
he foresaw an interruption.

Together they got Norton's inert form upon the folded blankets. Patten's hands shook a little;
he asked for a sip of brandy from her flask.  She granted it, and while Patten drank she cut
away the hair from the unconscious man's scalp.  Long ago her fingers had made their examination,
were assured that her diagnosis was correct.  Her hands were as untrembling as the steel of
her knife.  She made the first incision, drawing back the flap of skin and flesh, revealing
the bone of the skull. . . .

For forty-five minutes she worked, her hands swift, sure, capable, unerring.  It was done.
She was right.  The under-table of the skull had been fractured; there was the bone pressure
upon the underlying area of brain-tissue.  She had removed the pressure and with it any true
pathological cause of the theft impulse.

She drew a bandage about the sleeping eyes.  She made Patten bring his own saddle-blanket;
it was fixed across the entrance of the anteroom of the King's Palace, darkening it.  Then
she went to the ledge just outside and stood there, staring with wide eyes across the little
meadow with its flowers and birds and water, down the slope of the mountain, to the miles of
desert.  She had now but to await the awakening.

CHAPTER XXII

THE BEGINNING OF THE END

When Norton stirred and would have opened his eyes but for the bandage drawn over them, she
was at his side.  She had been kneeling there for a long time, waiting.  Her hand was on his
where it had crept softly from his wrist.

"You must lie very still," she commanded gently.  "I am with you and everything is all right.
There was . . . an accident.  No, don't try to move the cloth; please, Roderick."  She pushed
his hand back down to his side.  "We are in the King's Palace, just you and I, and everything
is all right."

He was feverish, and she soothed him; sick, and she mothered him and nursed him; troubled,
uncertain, perplexed, and she comforted him.  At the first she went no further than saying
that there had been an accident; that already she had sent to San Juan for all that was needed
to make him comfortable; that Mr. Engle had been instructed to speed a man to the railroad
for further necessities; that now for his own sake, for her sake, he must just lie very still
. . . try not even to think.

He was listless, seeming without volition, quite willing to surrender himself into her keeping.
What dazed thoughts were his upon this first awakening were lost, forgotten in the brief doze
into which she succeeded in luring him.  When again he stirred and woke she was still at his
side, kneeling upon the hard rock floor beside him. . . .  She had had Patten help her to lift
him down from the table before she despatched Patten with the note for John Engle.  Again she
pleaded with him to lie still and just trust to her.

He was very still.  She knew that he was trying to piece together his fragmentary thoughts
and impressions, seeking to bridge over from last night to to-day.  So she talked softly with
him, soothing him alike with the tenderness of her voice and the pressure and gentle stroke
of her hand upon his hand and arm.  He had had an accident but was going to be all right from
now on.  But he must not be moved for a little. Therefore Engle would come soon, and perhaps
Mrs. Engle with him.  And a wagon bringing a real bed and fresh clean sheets and all of those
articles which she had listed.  It would not be very long now until Engle came.

But at last when she paused his hand shut down upon hers and he asked quietly:

"I didn't dream it all, did I, Virginia?  It is hard to know just what I did and what I dreamed
I did.  But it seems more than a dream. . . . Was it I who robbed Kemble of the Quigley mines?"

"Yes," she told him lightly, as though it were a matter of small moment.  "But you were not
responsible for what you did."

"And there were other robberies?  I even tried to steal from you?"

"Yes," she answered again.

"And you wanted to have me submit to an operation?  And I would not?"

"Yes."

"And then . . . then you . . . you did it?"

So she explained, feeling that certainty would be less harmful to him now than a continual
struggle to penetrate the curtain of semidarkness obscuring his memory.

"I took it upon myself," she told him at the end.  "I took the chance that you might die; that
it might be I who had killed you.  Perhaps I had no right to do it.  But I have succeeded;
I have drawn you back from kleptomania to your own clear moral strength.  You will get well,
Rod Norton; you will be an honest man.  But I took it upon myself to take the chances for you.
Now . . . do you think that you can forgive me?"

He appeared to be pondering the matter.  When his reply came it was couched in the form of
a question:

"Would you have done it, Virginia . . . if you didn't love me a little as I love you?"

And her answer comforted him.  He was sleeping when the Engles came.

Later came the big wagon, one of Engle's men driving, Ignacio Chavez and two other Mexicans
accompanying on horseback.  Virginia had forgotten nothing.  Quick hands did her bidding now,
altering the anteroom of the King's Palace into a big airy bedroom.  There was a great rug
upon the floor, a white-sheeted and counterpaned bed, fresh pajamas, table, chair, alcohol-stove,
glasses and cups and water-pitchers.  There were cloths for fresh bandages, wide palm-leaf
fans . . . there was even ice and the promise of further ice to come. The sun was shut out
by heavy curtains across the main entrance and the broken-out holes in the easterly wall.

"My dear," said Mrs. Engle, taking both of Virginia's hands into her own, "I don't know just
what has happened and I don't care to know until you get good and ready to tell me about it.
But I can see by looking at you that you are at the end of your tether.  I'm going to take
care of Roddy now while you sleep at least a couple of hours."

She and Engle had asked themselves the question as soon as Virginia's note came to them: "What
in the world were she and Norton doing on the mountainside at that time of night?"  But they
had no intention of asking it of any one else.  Rather John Engle hastened to answer it for others.

"Muchachos" he said to the men when he sent them back to San Juan, "there was an accident last
night.  Señor Norton had a fall from his horse, striking his head.  My cousin, Miss Page, together
with Señor Norton and Señor Patten, was taking a short cut this way to make a call at Pozo.
Señor Patten and Miss Page succeeded in getting Señor Norton here, where they had to operate
upon him immediately.  He is doing well now, thanks to their prompt action; he will be well
soon.  You may tell his friends."

And then, seeing little that he could do here and much that he might accomplish elsewhere,
John Engle rode on his spurs back to San Juan to lay down the law to Patten.

Throughout the days and nights which followed, Virginia and Mrs. Engle nursed Norton back into
a semblance of strength.  One of them was always at his side.  When at last the bandage might
be removed from the blindfolded eyes Norton's questing glance found Virginia first of all.

"Virginia," he said quietly, "thanks to you I can start in all over now."

She understood.  So did Mrs. Engle.  For Norton had explained to both the banker and his wife,
holding nothing back from them, telling them frankly of crimes committed, of his attempted
abduction of the girl who in turn had "abducted him."  He had restitutions to make without
the least unnecessary delay.  He must square himself and he thanked God that he could square
himself, that his crimes had been bloodless, that he had but to return the stolen moneys. 
And, to wipe his slate clean, he stood ready to pay to the full for what he had done, to offer
his confession openly, to accept without a murmur whatever decree the court might award him.

Again John Engle did his bit.  He went to the county-seat and saw the district attorney, an
upright man, but one who saw clearly.  The lawyer laid his work aside and came immediately
with Engle to the King's Palace.

"Any court, having the full evidence," he said crisply, "would hold you blameless.  Give me
the money you have taken; I shall see that it is returned and that no questions are asked.
And if you've got any idiotic compulsion about open confession . . .  Well, think of somebody
besides yourself for a change.  Try thinking about the Wonder Girl a little, it will be good
for you."

For he never called her anything but that, the Wonder Girl.  When he had heard everything,
he came to her after his straightforward fashion and gripped her hand until he hurt her.

"I didn't know they made girls like you," he told her before she even knew who he was.

It was he who, summoning all of his forensic eloquence, finally quieted Norton's disturbed
mind.  Norton in his weakened condition was all for making a clean breast before the world,
for acknowledging himself unfit for his office, for resigning.  But in the end when he was
told curtly that he owed vastly more to the county than to his stupid conscience, that he had
been chosen to get Jim Galloway, that that was his job, that he could do all the resigning
he wanted to afterward, and that finally he was not to consider his own personal feelings until
he had thought of Virginia's, Norton gave over his regrets and merely waxed impatient for the
time when he could finish his work and go back to Las Flores rancho.  For it was understood
that he would not go alone.

"I'll free del Rio because I have to, not because I want to," said the lawyer at the end. 
"Trusting to you to bring him in again later.  He is one of Galloway's crowd and I know it,
despite his big bluffs. Galloway is away right now, somewhere below the border.  Just what
he is up to I don't know.  I think del Rio does.  When Galloway gets back you keep your eye
on the two of them."

After the county attorney's departure Rod Norton rested more easily. He was making restitution
for all that he had done, he was getting well and strong again, he had been given such proof
as comes to few men of the utter devotion of a woman.  Through many a bright hour he and Virginia,
daring to look confidently ahead, talked of life as it might be lived upon Las Flores when
the lake was made, the lower lands irrigated, the big home built.

"And," she confessed to him at the last, her face hidden against his breast, "I never want
to see a surgeon's lancet again in all of my life, Rod Norton!"

When at length the sheriff could bestride a horse he wondered impatiently what it could be
that kept Jim Galloway so long away.  And if he was never coming back.  But he knew that high
up among the cliffs, hidden away in the ancient caves, Jim Galloway's rifles were still lying.

CHAPTER XXIII

THE STRONG HAND OF GALLOWAY

"Oh, you will all dance and shout together very soon," said Ignacio wisely to his six bells
in the old Mission garden.  "You will see! Captain and the Dancer and Lolita, the Little One,
La Golondrina, and Ignacio Chavez, all of you together until far out across the desert men
hear.  For it is in the air that things will happen.  And then, when it is all done . . . 
Why then, amigos, who but me is going to build a little roof over you that runs down both ways,
to save you from the hot sun and the rains? . . .  Oh, one knows.  It is in the air.  You will
see!"

For Jim Galloway had returned, a new Galloway, a Galloway who carried himself up and down the
street with bright, victorious eyes, and the stride of full confidence, who, at least in the
eyes of Ignacio Chavez, was like a blood-lusting lion "screwing up his muscles" to spring.
Galloway's return brought to Roderick Norton a fresh vigilance, to Virginia a sleepless anxiety,
to Florence Engle unrest, uncertainty, very nearly pure panic.  During the first few days of
his absence she had allowed herself the romantic joy of floating unchecked upon the tide of
a girlish fancy, dreaming dreams after the approved fashion which is youth's, dancing lightly
upon foamy crests, seeing only blue water and no rocks under her.  Then, with the potency of
the man's character removed with the removal of his physical being, she grew to see the shoals
and to draw back from them, shuddering somewhat pleasurably.  Now that he was again in San
Juan and that her eyes had been held by his in the first meeting upon the street, her heart
fluttered, her vision clouded, she wondered what she would do.

There was to be no lost action in Galloway's campaign now.  Within half a dozen hours of his
arrival there was a gathering of various of his henchmen at the Casa Blanca.  Just what passed
was not to be known; it was significant, however, that among those who had come to his call
were the Mexican, del Rio, Antone, Kid Rickard, and a handful of the other most restless spirits
of the county.  Norton accepted the act in all that it implied to his suspicions and sent out
word to Cutter, Brocky Lane, and those of his own and Brocky's cowboys whom he counted on.

Galloway's second step, known only to himself and Florrie, was a private meeting with the banker's
daughter.  It occurred upon the second evening following his return, just after dark among
the cottonwoods, but a hundred yards from her home.  He had made the opportunity with the despatch
which marked him now; he had watched for her during the day, had appeared merely to pass her
by chance on the street, and had paused just long enough to ask her to meet him.

"I have done all that I planned to do," he announced triumphantly, his eyes holding hers, forcing
upon her spirit the mastery of his own. "The power in Mexico is going to be Francisco Villa.
I have seen him. Let me talk with you to-night, Florence.  History is in the making; it may
be you and I together who shape the destiny of a people."

After all, she was but a little over sixteen, her head filled with the bright stuff of romance,
and he was a forceful man who for his own purposes had long studied her.  She came to the tryst,
albeit half in trembling, a dozen tremulous times ready for a fleeing retreat.

Again he was all deference to her.  He builded cunningly upon the fact that he trusted her;
that he, a strong man, put his faith in her, a woman.  He flattered her as she had never been
flattered, not too subtly, yet not so broadly as to arouse her suspicion of his intent. He
spoke quietly at first, then his voice seeming charged with his leaping ambition set responsive
chords within her thrilling.  He pictured to her the state he was going to found, organize,
rule, an uncertain number of fair miles stretching along a tropical coast; he made her see
again a palatial dwelling with servants in livery, the blue waters of the Gulf, the white of
dancing sails.  He spoke of a peace which was going to be declared between warring factions
below the border within thirty days, of the magnificence to be Francisco Villa's, of the position
to be occupied by Jim Galloway at Villa's side.  His planned development of a gold-mine he
mentioned merely casually.

And then at length when Florrie was prepared for the passionate declaration he humbled himself
at her feet, lifted his hands to her in supplication, told her in burning words of his love.
Whether the man did love her with all of the strength of his nature or whether he but meant
to strike through her at John Engle, the richest man of this section of the State, it was for
Jim Galloway alone to know.  Certainly not for Florrie, who listened wide-eyed. . . .  Once
she thought that he was about to sweep her up into his arms; they had lifted suddenly from
his sides.  She had drawn back, crying sharply: "No, no!"  But he had waited, had again grown
deeply deferential, swerving immediately to further vividly colored pictures of life as it
might be, of power and pomp, of a secure position from which a man and a woman might direct
policies of state, shaping the lives of other men and women.

And in the end of that ardent interview Jim Galloway's caution was still with him, his knowledge
of the girl's nature clear in his mind. He did not ask her answer; he merely sought a third
opportunity to speak with her, suggesting that upon the next night she slip out and meet him.
He would have a horse for her, one for himself; they could ride for a half-hour.  He had so
much to tell her.

Perhaps a much more important factor than she realized in her action was Florrie's new riding-habit.
It had been acquired but three days before and she knew very well just how she looked in it.
There would be a moon, almost at the full.  The full moon and the new riding-habit were the
allies given by fate to Jim Galloway.

Besides all of this, she had not seen Elmer Page for a month.  Further, she knew that Elmer
had gone riding upon at least one occasion with a girl of Las Palmas, Superintendent Kemble's
daughter.  And finally, there lies much rich adventure in just doing that which we know we
should leave alone.  So Florrie, while her mother and father thought that she had gone early
to bed, was on her way to meet Galloway.

They rode out of the cottonwood fringed arroyo just before moonrise, circling the town, Florrie
scarcely marking whether they rode north or south.  But Galloway knew what he was doing and
they turned slowly toward the southwest.  As they rode, his horse drawn in close to hers, he
talked as he had never talked before; his voice rang from the first word with triumphant assurance.

"When he calls she will follow!" Virginia had thought fearfully of them.  To-night he was calling
eloquently, she was following, frightened and yet obedient to his mastery.

Galloway's influence over the girl, that of a strong will over a weak and fluttering one, was
quite naturally the stronger when they were alone together.  She had always been willing, sometimes
a bit eager, to make a hero of him; he had long thoroughly understood her.  To-night was the
brief battle of wills, with him summoning all of his strength, flushed with victory.  Abruptly
now he urged that she marry him; a moment later his insistent pleading was subtly tinged with
command.  He was the arbiter of the hour; he told her of a priest waiting for them at a little
village a dozen miles away.  They would be married to-night; they were eloping even at this
palpitant instant!

When Florence would have stopped, of two balancing minds, he urged the horses on.  When she
would have procrastinated, he beat down her opposition with the rush of his words.  Even while
she struggled she was yielding; Galloway was quick to see how her resistance was growing fainter.
And all the time, while he spoke vehemently and she for the most part listened in a fascinated
silence, they were riding on through the moonlit night. . . .  It seemed to her that surely
he must love her as few men had loved before. . . .

The village he had promised her was in reality but two poor houses at a crossroads, inhabited
by two Mexican men and dowdy women.  On the way they encountered but one horseman; Galloway
turned his own and Florence's animals out so that, though seen, they might escape recognition.
At the nearest of the two hovels he dismounted, raising his arms to her.  When she cried out
and shrank back trembling, he laughed softly, caught her in his arms, and lifted her free of
the saddle; when he would have kissed her she put her face into her two hands.

"I . . . I want to go back!" she whispered.  "I am afraid!  Please, Mr. Galloway, please let
me go home."

Dogs were barking, a man and woman came out.  The man laughed.  Then he gathered up the bridle-reins
and led the horses to the barn.  Florrie, shrinking out of Galloway's embrace, looked particularly
little and helpless in her pretty riding-habit.

She went with Galloway into the lamplighted room.  The woman looked at her curiously, then
to Galloway, something of wonder and upstanding admiration in her beady eyes.

"Has the priest come?" demanded Galloway.

"No, señor.  Not yet."

She added by way of explanation that word had been sent; that the priest was delayed; a man
was dying and he must stay a little at the bedside.  She muttered the tale like a child repeating
a lesson. Galloway, watching Florence, who sat rigid in her chair by the table, waited for
her to finish.

At the end he gave the woman a sharp, significant look.  She said something about a cup of
coffee for the señorita and went hastily into the kitchen.  Florrie sprang to her feet, her
hands clasped.

"You must let me go," she cried wildly.  "The priest isn't here.  I am going home."

"No," said Galloway steadily.  "You are not going home, Florence.  You must listen to me. 
I love you more than anything else In the world, my dear.  I want you, want you all for mine."

She saw a sudden light flare up in his eyes and it seemed to her that her heart would beat
through the walls of her breast.  "I am not a boy, but a man.  A strong man, a man who, when
he wants a thing, wants it with his whole heart and body and soul, a man who takes what he
wants. Wait; just listen to me!  You love me now; you will love me more and more when I give
you all that I have promised you.  To-night, in an hour, I will have made the beginning; I
will have gathered about me fifty men who will do exactly what I tell them to do!  Then they
will go with us down into Mexico; they will be the beginning of a little army whose one thought
will be loyalty . . . loyalty to you and to me."

"No," said Florence, her voice shaking.  "I am going. . . ."

"You will marry me when the priest comes," he cut in sternly. "Otherwise, if you make me, I
will take you with me anyway, unmarried. And I will make you marry me when we have crossed
the border.  And now . . . now you will kiss me.  I have waited long, Florence."

He came toward her; she slipped behind the table, crying out to him to stop.  But he came on,
caught her, drew her into his arms.  And Florrie, some new passionate, terrified Florrie, beat
at him with her fists, tore at him with her nails, hid her face from him, and with the agility
born of her terror slipped away from him again, again put the table between them. Here is a packet of
paper that you're to keep in your pocket till it's taken away from you. And now I'll help you
to saddle the horse, and once you're across London Bridge you'll likely come upon Maidstone
and Rye some time in your life, for you can't get back over the river
again except by the same bridge, so you'll know it when you come
to it."

And so I mounted Paddy in the courtyard; the sleepy watchman undid
the bolts in the big gate in the archway; and my man rode out into
the darkness in no very cheerful humour over his journey.

I came back and took forty winks more in the arm-chair, then, with
much difficulty, I roused Jem Bottles.

He also, without a murmur, but with much pride in his dressing, put
on the second of my discarded suits, and seemed to fancy himself mightily
in his new gear.

With plenty of cord I tied and retied the two bundles of swords and
placed them across the horse in front of his saddle, and it was not
yet daylight when Jem jingled out into the street like a moving armoury.

Two huge pistols were in his holsters, loaded and ready to his hand.

"By the Saints," said Jem proudly, "the man that meddles with me shall
get hot lead or cold steel for his breakfast," and with that he went off
at a canter, waking the echoes with the clash of his horse's shoes
on the cobble-stones.

I went up stairs again and threw myself down on the bed and slept peacefully
with no Paddy to rouse me until half-past-six, when a drawer knocked
at the door and said that a priest that was downstairs would be glad
to see me.

I had him up in a jiffy, and a hot breakfast following fast on his heels,
which we both laid in in quantities, for neither of us knew where our
next meal was to be.

However, the good father paid little thought to the future as long
as the present meal was well served and satisfactory.

He had no more idea than a spring lamb how we were to get to Rye, but thought
perhaps a coach set out at that hour in the morning. When I told him I had a
horse saddled and waiting for him, he was pleased, for Father Donovan
could scamper across the country in Ireland with the best of them.

So far as I could judge, the coast was clear, for every one we met
between the "Pig and Turnip" and the bridge seemed honest folk intent
on getting early to their work.

It was ten minutes past seven when we clattered across the bridge
and set our faces toward Rye.

CHAPTER XXXI

Looking back over my long life I scarcely remember any day more pleasant
than that I spent riding side by side with Father Donovan from London
to Rye. The fine old man had a fund of entertaining stories, and although
I had heard them over and over again there was always something fresh
in his way of telling them, and now and then I recognized a narrative
that had once made two separate stories, but which had now become
welded into one in the old man's mind.

There was never anything gloomy in these anecdotes, for they always
showed the cheerful side of life and gave courage to the man that
wanted to do right; for in all of Father Donovan's stories the virtuous
were always made happy.

We talked of our friends and acquaintances, and if he ever knew anything
bad about a man he never told it; while if I mentioned it he could
always say something good of him to balance it, or at least to mitigate
the opinion that might be formed of it.

He was always doing some man a good turn or speaking a comforting
word for him.

"O'Ruddy," he said, "I spent most of the day yesterday writing letters
to those that could read them in our part of Ireland, setting right
the rumours that had come back to us, which said you were fighting duels
and engaged in brawls, but the strangest story of all was the one about
your forming a friendship with a highwayman, who, they said, committed
robberies on the road and divided the spoil with you, and here I
find you without a servant at all at all, leading a quiet, respectable
life at a quiet, respectable inn.

It's not even in a tavern that I first come across you, but kneeling
devoutly, saying a prayer in your mother church.

I see you leaving your inn having paid your bill like a gentleman, when
they said you took night-leave of most of the hostelries in England.

Dear me, and there was the landlord bowing to you as if you were a prince, and all his servants
in a row with the utmost respect for you.

Ah, O'Ruddy, it's men like you that gives the good name to Ireland, and causes her to be looked up
to by all the people of the world."

I gave Father Donovan heartfelt thanks for his kindness, and prayed
to myself that we would not come upon Jem Bottles on the road, and
that we would be left unmolested on our journey until we saw the sea-coast.

Of course, if we were set upon, it would not be my fault, and it's
not likely he would blame me; but if we came on Bottles, he was inclined
to be very easy in conversation, and, in spite of my warnings, would
let slip words that would shock the old priest.

But when a day begins too auspiciously, its luck is apt to change before the
sun sets, as it was with me.

It was nearing mid-day, and we were beginning to feel a trifle hungry,
yet were in a part of the country that gave little promise of an inn,
for it was a lonely place with heath on each side of the road, and,
further on, a bit of forest.

About half-way through this wooded plain an astonishing sight met my eyes.
Two saddled horses were tied to a tree, and by the side of the road
appeared to be a heap of nine or ten saddles, on one of which a man
was sitting, comfortably eating a bit of bread, while on another a
second man, whose head was tied up in a white cloth, lay back in a
recumbent position, held upright by the saddlery.

Coming closer, I was disturbed to see that the man eating was Jem Bottles,
while the other was undoubtedly poor Paddy, although his clothes
were so badly torn that I had difficulty in recognizing them as my
own.

As we drew up Jem stood and saluted with his mouth full, while Paddy groaned deeply. I was off my horse at
once and ran to Paddy.

"Where are ye hurted?" said I.

"I'm killed," said Paddy.

"I've done the best I could for him," put in Jem Bottles. "He'll be
all right in a day or two."

"I'll not," said Paddy, with more strength than one would suspect;
"I'll not be all right in a day or two, nor in a week or two, nor
in a month or two, nor in a year or two; I'm killed entirely."

"You're not," said Bottles.

"When I was on the highway I never minded a little clip like that."

"Hush, Bottles," said I, "you talk altogether too much.

Paddy," cried I, "get on your feet, and show yer manners here to Father
Donovan."

Paddy got
on his feet with a celerity which his former attitude would not have
allowed one to believe possible.

"My poor boy!" said the kindly priest; "who has misused you?" and
he put his two hands on the sore head.

"About two miles from here," said Paddy, "I was set on by a score of
men--"

"There was only nine of them," interrupted Jem, "count the saddles."

"They came on me so sudden and unexpected that I was off my horse
before I knew there was a man within reach.

They had me down before I could say my prayers, and cudgelled me
sorely, tearing my clothes, and they took away the packet of papers
you gave me, sir.

Sure
I tried to guard it with my life, an' they nearly took both."

"I am certain you did your best, Paddy," said I; "and it's sorry I am
to see you injured."

"Then they rode away, leaving me, sore wounded, sitting on the side of
the road," continued Paddy. "After a while I come to myself, for I seemed
dazed; and, my horse peacefully grazing beside me, I managed to get
on its back, and turned toward London in the hope of meeting you; but
instead of meeting you, sir, I came upon Jem with his pile of saddles,
and he bound up my head and did what he could to save me, although
I've a great thirst on me at this moment that's difficult to deal
with."

"There's a ditch by the side of the road," said the priest.

"Yes," said Paddy sadly; "I tried some of that."

I went to my pack on the horse and took out a bottle and a leather cup.
Paddy drank and smacked his lips with an ecstasy that gave us hope
for his ultimate recovery.

Jem Bottles laughed, and to close his mouth I gave him also some
of the wine.

"I hope," said Father Donovan with indignation, "that the miscreant who misused you will be caught and
punished."

"I punished them," said Jem, drawing the back of his hand across his mouth.

"We'll
hear about it another time," said I, having my suspicions.

"Let the good man go on," begged Father Donovan, who is not without human
curiosity.

Jem needed no second bidding.

"Your Reverence," he said, "I was jogging quietly on as a decent man
should, when, coming to the edge of this forest, I saw approach me
a party of horsemen, who were very hilarious and laughed loudly.

If you look up and down the road and see how lonely it is, and then look at the wood, with no
hedge between it and the highway, you'll notice the place was designed
by Providence for such a meeting."

"Sure the public road is designed as a place for travellers to meet,"
said the father, somewhat bewildered by the harangue.

"Your Reverence is right, but this place could not afford better accommodation
if I had made it myself.

I struck into the wood before they saw me, tore the black lining from my
hat, punched two holes in it for the eyes, and tied it around my
forehead, letting it hang down over my face; then I primed my two
pistols and waited for the gentlemen.

When they were nearly opposite, a touch of the heels to my horse's flank
was enough, and out he sprang into the middle of the road.

"'Stand and deliver!' I cried, pointing the pistols at them, the words
coming as glibly to my lips as if I had said them no later ago than
yesterday.

'Stand and deliver, ye--'" and here Jem glibly rattled out a stream
of profane appellatives which was disgraceful to listen to.

"Tut, tut, Jem," I said, "you shouldn't speak like that.

Any way we'll hear the rest another time."

"That's what I called them, sir," said Jem, turning to me with surprise,
"you surely would not have me tell an untruth."

"I wouldn't have you tell anything.

Keep quiet. Father Donovan is not interested in your recital."

"I beg your pardon, O'Ruddy," said Father Donovan, looking at me reproachfully;
"but I am very much interested in this man's narrative."

"As any good man should be," continued Jem, "for these were arrant scoundrels;
one of them I knew, and his name is Doctor Chord.

He fell off his horse on the roadway at once and pleaded for mercy.
I ordered the others instantly to hold their hands above their heads,
and they did so, except one man who began fumbling in his holster,
and then, to show him what I could do with a pistol, I broke his wrist.

At the sound of the shot the horses began to plunge, nearly trampling
Doctor Chord into the dust.

"'Clasp your hands above your heads, ye--'"

Here went on another stream of terrible language again, and in despair
I sat down on the pile of saddles, allowing things to take their course.

Jem continued:

"The lesson of the pistol was not misread by my gentlemen, when they
noticed I had a second loaded one; so, going to them one after the
other I took their weapons from them and flung them to the foot of
that tree, where, if you look, you may see them now.

Then I
took a contribution from each one, just as you do in church, your Reverence.
I'm sure you have a collection for the poor, and that was the one I
was taking up this day.

I have
not counted them yet," said the villain turning to me, "but I think
I have between sixty and seventy guineas, which are all freely at
your disposal, excepting a trifle for myself and Paddy there.

There's no plaster
like gold for a sore head, your Reverence.

I made each one of them dismount and take
off his saddle and throw it in the pile; then I had them mount again
and drove them with curses toward London, and very glad they were
to escape."

"He did not get the papers again," wailed Paddy, who was not taking
as jubilant a view of the world as was Jem at that moment.

"I knew nothing of the papers," protested Bottles.

"If you had
told me about the papers, I would have had them, and if I had been
carrying the papers these fellows would not have made away with them."

"Then,"
said the horrified priest, "you did not commit this action in punishment
for the injury done to your friend?

You knew nothing of that at the time.

You set
on these men thinking they were simple travellers."

"O, I knew nothing of what happened to Paddy till later, but you see,
your Reverence, these men themselves were thieves and robbers. In their
case it was nine men against one poor half-witted Irish lad--"

"Half-witted yourself," cried Paddy angrily.

"But you, sir," continued his Reverence,
"were simply carrying out the action of a highwayman. Sir, you are
a highwayman."

"I was, your Reverence, but I have reformed."

"And this pile of saddles attests your reformation!" said the old
man, shaking his head.

"But you see, your Reverence, this is the way to look at it--"

"Keep
quiet, Jem!" cried I in disgust.

"How can I keep quiet," urged Bottles,
"when I am unjustly accused? I do not deny that I was once a highwayman,
but Mr. O'Ruddy converted me to better ways--"

"Highways," said Paddy,
adding, with a sniff, "Half-witted!"

"Your Reverence, I had no more
intention of robbing those men than you have at this moment. I didn't
know they were thieves themselves. Then what put it into my head to
jump into the wood and on with a mask before you could say, Bristol
town? It's the mysterious ways of Providence, your Reverence. Even
I didn't understand it at the time, but the moment I heard Paddy's
tale I knew at once I was but an instrument in the hand of Providence,
for I had not said, 'Stand and deliver!' this many a day, nor thought
of it."

"It may be so; it may be so," murmured the priest, more to
himself than to us; but I saw that he was much troubled, so, getting
up, I said to Paddy:

"Are you able to ride farther on to-day?"

"If
I'd another sup from the cup, sir, I think I could," whereat Jem Bottles
laughed again, and I gave them both a drink of wine.

"What are you
going to do with all this saddlery?" said I to Bottles.

Norton laid a hand on Elmer's arm, speaking quietly.

"Listen, Elmer," he said.  "We will do what we can where Brocky is. But that isn't all of the
devilment to-night.  Galloway got Florrie away somehow; she was the one riding with him toward
the crossroads. It's up to you to ride on and ride like the devil and tell John Engle. . .
.  Come on, boys!"

Elmer sagged in his saddle as though he had been struck a heavy physical blow.

"Galloway got Fluff!" he muttered dully.

His gaze trailed along after the departing posse.  Norton on his big roan was setting the pace,
the steady swinging gallop to eat up the miles swiftly and yet not kill the horses before the
journey's end. The others followed him, stringing out single file to take advantage of the
trail.  The moon picked them out with clear relief, a grim line of retribution.  And yet the
boy, while his eyes wandered after them, saw only little Fluff struggling in Jim Galloway's
arms. . . .

Then suddenly he, too, was riding, but at a pace which took no heed of a horse's endurance,
riding a gallant brute that stretched out its neck, nostrils flaring, hammering hoofs beating
out the very staccato of urgent speed upon the flying sands.  Already his revolver was tight
clinched in a lifted hand.  Already he had swerved a little from the distant lights of San
Juan.  He was taking the shortest line which led to Denbar's crossroads.

"Galloway's got Fluff," he said over and over, choking on the words.

An hour later Norton heard the first spitting of rifles.  Another fifteen minutes of shod hoofs
pounding through the broken hills and he saw the first spurts of flame cutting through the
shadows where the trees clung to the arroyo.  As he drew in his horse the men behind him closed
up about him.  He threw out his arm, pointing.

"Brocky's boys must be right down there," he said sharply.  "The Kid and del Rio will be yonder;
those are their horses.  Young Page says there are about fifty of them."

A fusillade of rifle-shots interrupted him.  Along a fifty or sixty yard front the Kid's and
del Rio's men had crept in closer to Brocky's arroyo, worming their way upon their stomachs,
and now fired together. There came a rattling reply from the creek, the shouting of cowboys.

"We'll take those fellows first," ordered Norton quickly.  "They will see us when we climb
that little rise.  Spread out; go easy until we get to the top.  Then, boys, let's see who
can give them hell first and fastest."

They looked to their rifles for the last time and rode slowly up the short slope of the low-lying
ridge.  Then, as the first man topped it, there came a shout from the shadows in front, another
shout, and the whizzing of rifle-balls.  Norton used his spurs then; his big roan leaped forward
and was racing down the farther slope; his men in a long line rode with him.  And as he rode
he lifted his own gun and poured his lead into the thickest of the shadows.

A wild shout of cheering broke from the arroyo; rifle-barrels grew hot in hot hands.  On through
the bright moonlight came the sheriff's posse, some of them firing as they rode, others saving
their lead.  To be seen from afar now, they drew many a shot toward themselves.  And yet the
target of a man riding swiftly over uneven ground and in the moonlight is not to be found overreadily
by questing lead.  When Norton called to his men to stop and dismount, taking advantage of
a row of scattered boulders, not a saddle was empty.

Every man as he dismounted threw his horsed reins to the ground; the animals might bolt or
they might not, some of them might not stop for many a mile, others would be found a hundred
yards away.  But they must all think less of that now than of what lay in front of them.

"That you, Norton?" came a cheery voice booming suddenly through the silence which had shut
down as the newcomers disappeared among the boulders.

"Here, Brocky!" shouted Norton.  "All right down there?"

"Pretty well," called Brocky.  "They've winged three or four of us . . . they're damned rotten
shots, Roddy.  We've popped over a dozen of them."

There were other shouts then, tenor Mexican voices for the most part with the Kid's unmistakable
snarl running through them.  Men were calling in Spanish to their fellows across the arroyo.
Whatever it was that Brocky was trying to say was lost in the din.  And then again came a volley
of rifle-shots.

Norton rose slowly to his feet, studying the situation with frowning eyes.  A bullet hissed
high overhead, another cut by his side, another went shrieking off into the night.  But while
they whined in his ears he laid his rude plans.

The arroyo wound and twisted this way and that through the broken uplands.  Where Brocky Lane
had placed his men so as to defy the union of the two bands of outlaws it described a wide
rude arc curving about the spur from Mt. Temple.  Here the cowboys, with some twenty or thirty
feet separating each man from his nearest fellow, were extended along a line which must be
about two hundred yards long.  The Mexicans to the eastward, where del Rio and Kid Rickard
and Moraga were, were bunched in the protecting shadows of a field of boulders such as those
where the sheriff's men lay.

"We could stick here all night and get nothing done," said Norton to the men close to him.
"Rickard's gang could have charged down on Brocky long ago if they'd had the stomach for that
sort of thing. They've got the numbers on us; they more than had the count on Brocky's outfit;
with those jaspers on the mountainside they could have turned the trick.  But that sort hasn't
the desire for a scrap unless they can pull it from behind a rock.  And, by the same token,
they won't last five minutes in the face of a charge.  Get me?"

"But the ginks on the mountain will pick us off pretty lively as we hit the trail down the
slope here," said a thoughtful voice.

Then Norton explained further.  He meant to eliminate the other crowd; it could be done.  When
he gave the word every man was to jump to his feet and make the first half of his charge the
bloodless one down into the arroyo toward Brocky Lane.  Then, Norton's men and Brocky's united,
they could surge up the creek's banks and make their flying attack, coming in between the two
other factions so that the men on the mountain must hold their fire or kill as many of their
own crowd as of the others. 

"Seven--er--nearly."

"So'm I--nearly. I've got to be six first though.

I shall have a birthday next week. A big one.

Have you
brought any ellyfunts from India?"

"I've never seen a nellyfunt--only in pictures."

A shudder shook the boy's sturdy frame.

"Why do you go like that? Feel sick?"

"No. I don't know.

I seemed to remember something--in a book. I
dream about it. There's a nasty blue room with a mud floor. And Something.
Beastly. Makes you yell out and you can't. You can't run away either.
But the Sword dream is lovely."

Lucille appeared puzzled and put this incoherence aside.

"What a baby never to see ellyfunts! I've seen lots.

Hundreds. Zoo.
Circuses. Persessions. Camels, too."

"Oh, I used to ride a camel every day.

There
was one in the compound with his oont-wallah,[14] Abdul Ghaffr; and Khodadad
Khan used to beat the oont-wallah on cold mornings to warm himself."

"What's an oont-wallah?"

"Don't you know? Why, he's just the oont-wallah,
of course. Who'd graze the camel or load it up if there wasn't one?"

At
tea in the nursery the young lady suddenly remarked:--

"I like you,
Boy. You're worth nine Haddocks."

This cryptic valuation puzzled
Damocles the more in that he had never seen or heard of a haddock.
Had he been acquainted with the fowl he might have been yet more astonished.

Later
he discovered that the comparison involved the fat boy who sat solemnly
stuffing on the other side of the table, his true baptismal name being
Haddon.

Yes, Lucille was a revelation, a marvel.

Then it was man to man and often enough one man to two or three, dark forms struggling, men
striking with clubbed guns, men snatching at their side-arms, going down, rising or half rising,
firing as long as a charge was in a gun or strength in a body.  And as they fired and struck
and called out after the fashion of the cowboy in a scrimmage the body of men before them wavered
and broke and began to fall back.

Norton swung his clubbed empty rifle up in both hands and beat down a man firing at him with
a revolver.  All about him were struggling forms and he was sore beset now and then to know
who was who.  A fierce-mustachioed, black-browed man thrust a rifle toward his breast and pulled
the trigger and screamed out his curses as Norton put a revolver bullet through him.  A slender,
boyish form sprang up upon a rock recklessly, training his rifle upon Brocky Lane.  It was
the Kid. But the Kid had met a man quicker, surer, than himself, and Brocky fired first.  Kid
Rickard spun and fell.  Norton saw him drop but lost sight of him before the body struck the
earth.  He had found del Rio; del Rio had found him.

Two smoking revolvers were jerked up, two guns spoke through the clamor as one gun.  The men
were not ten feet apart as their guns spoke. Norton felt a bullet rip along his outer arm,
the sensation that of a whip-lash cutting deep.  He saw del Rio stagger back under the impact
of a forty-five-caliber bullet which must have merely grazed him, since it did not knock him
off his feet.  Del Rio, his lips streaming his curses and hatred, fired again.  But his wound
had been sorer than Norton's, his aim was less steady, and now as he gave back it was to fall
heavily and lie still.

It had lasted less than five minutes.  "It's Jim Galloway's fight and Galloway don't come!"
some one had shouted.  They broke again, gave back and back . . . and then were running, every
man of them scenting defeat and much worse than defeat unless he came to a horse before another
five minutes.  And after them, firing now as they ran, came Brocky's cowboys and Norton's men.

"They've got all of their horses over there together," yelled Brocky into Norton's ear.  "The
horses for those Ginneys who have been hiding out in the mountains, too.  That's why I cut
in between them that way. Now if we can only scatter their cayuses . . . why, Roddy, we'll
have every damned one of 'em afoot to be rounded up when we get ready!"

And Brocky, limping as he went, had raced along after the others.

But Norton did not follow.  His eyes had gone to the horses which he and the San Juan men had
left beyond the little line of boulders.  And, travelling that way, he had seen a lone horseman
far off to the south, a horseman riding frantically, seeking to come to the lower slopes of
Mt. Temple.

CHAPTER XXVI

THE BELLS RING

"Galloway!"

It seemed almost as though some great voice had shouted it to him through the din.  Yonder,
riding on his spurs, come at this late moment, was Jim Galloway.  The man responsible for all
of to-night's bloodshed, for the disappearance of Florrie, for the death of Billy Norton.

"Coming, Jim Galloway!"

Did he say it?  Or again was it a voice shouting to him, urging him on? He looked off to the
east.  Flying forms everywhere with other racing forms pursuing, firing as they ran.  Horses
jerking back, rearing, breaking away from the few men guarding them.  Full defeat for Jim Galloway
there.  But to the west?  Galloway coming on at top speed, shouting as he came, and, upon the
mountain's lower slope the others of Galloway's men, armed and bloodthirsty.  If Galloway came
to them, whipped them with his tongue, stirring them with his magnetism . . . why, then, the
fight was all to be fought over.

Now again Norton, too, was running, bearing down upon the straggling horses.  He caught up
the first dragging reins to lay his hand to, swung up into the saddle, measured swiftly the
distance between Galloway and the men on the mountain . . . and used his spurs.

On came Jim Galloway, his wide, heavy shoulders not to be mistaken in the rich moonlight, his
hat gone, his head up, a rifle across the saddle in front of him.  Norton lost sight of him
as he swept down into the bed of the arroyo, caught sight of him again from the farther side.
Already Galloway was appreciably nearer his men, driving his horse mercilessly.

"If he comes to his crowd before I can stop him," was Norton's thought, "he'll put his game
across on us yet.  I've got to head him off and take the chances."

Nor were the odds to be overlooked.  Galloway was still too far away to be stopped by a rifle-ball,
and Norton, heading him off, would expose himself not only to Galloway's fire but to that of
the men who were moving to a lower slope to meet their leader.  And yet, with fate in the balance,
here was no time for hesitation.

Now Galloway had seen him, had recognized him, perhaps, the thought coming naturally to him
that it would be Roderick Norton who rode to cut him off.  He shifted his rifle so that his
right hand was on the grip, the barrel caught in his left; he had dropped his horse's reins.
Norton was slipping a fresh clip into his gun, his own reins now upon his horse's neck.  And
now both men knew that unless a bullet stopped him Norton would cut across Galloway's path
before he could come to his men.

"At him, Roddy, old boy!  We're coming!"

Norton glanced over his shoulder and pressed on.  Brocky had missed him, had seen, had called
back a half dozen of his men and was following.  Well, if he dropped, maybe Brocky and the
others could get Jim Galloway.  It really began to look as though Galloway had played out his
string.

They were firing from the mountainside now, the bullets thus far flying wild of their rushing
target.  Norton shook his head and urged his horse to fresh endeavor.  In a moment he would
be fairly between Galloway and Galloway's last chance.  His eye picked out the spot where he
would dismount at that moment, a tumble of big boulders.  He would swing down so that they
would be between him and the mountain, so that nothing but moonlit open space lay between him
and Jim Galloway.

While rifles cracked and spat fire and sprayed lead over him and about him he rode the last
fifty yards.  He reached the boulders, set his horse up, threw himself from the saddle, and
with his back to the rock, his face toward Galloway, he lifted his rifle.  Galloway, almost
at the same instant, jerked in his own horse.  He was so close that Norton caught his cry of rage.

"Hands up, Galloway!" cried the sheriff.  "Hands up or I'll drop you."

But at last Galloway had come out into the open; at last there was no subterfuge to stand forth
at his need; at last, gambler that he was, he accepted the even break of man to man.  As Norton's
voice rang out Galloway fired.

He shot twice before Norton pulled the trigger.  Norton shot but the once.  Galloway dropped
his rifle, sat rigid a moment, toppled from the saddle.  And his men, seeing him go down, cried
out to one another and drew back into the mountain cañons.

"Funny thing," said Brocky Lane afterward.  "Had the picture of a kid of a girl in his pocket!
Must have carted it around for a year.  Old Roddy's bullet tore right square through it."

It was a picture of Florrie Engle, taken years before.  As Brocky said: "Just a kid of a girl."
Where he got it nobody knew.  But then there were other things about Jim Galloway which no
one knew.  Perhaps . . . Quien sabe!

During the late hours of the night and the following forenoon the thing was ended.  Sheriff
Roberts's deputies with a posse in automobiles had raced southward, intercepting those other
cars despatched toward the border by the Kid and del Rio.  Brocky Lane with a score of men
had swept down upon the stolen herds, scattered them, fired fifty shots, emptied some three
or four saddles, and sent the escaping rustlers flying toward the Mexican line. Mr. Cadge wished
he had broken his fast before leaving home.

"Really, I don't know whether I ought to pay you," replied Widow
Pipkin when she finally answered his last, desperate ring.

"Mr. Snavely made the bargain, and I should like to have him see
the work before settling with you."

She jingled some silver in her plump chain purse as she spoke.

Aha, the widow had deceived him! It was eight o'clock, the bank would
not open for an hour, she had had the money in the house all the
time.

The deceitfulness of women!

Mr. Cadge's blood rose to his head.

His little green eyes smouldered. Fortunately
for the widow, Mr. Snavely drove up at that moment on his delivery
wagon, and cheerfully agreed to appraise the work.

"Oh, come now, Cadge, my man, you don't call that a finished job, I
hope? Why, it is three foot short at each end and lacks a tier at the
top.

You had better pitch in for an hour or two and
make a fair job of it, and then you'll get your money."

"Wot do you call a fair job, I should like
to know?" replied the heated Cadge; "look at them 'ere boulders, as
I fished out of the h'icy water at peek o' day! Look at all them
little stones, h'every one of them as cost me backache and sweat. H'if
that job ain't worth six dollars it ain't worth six cents."
"Mebbe so, mebbe so, my good man," responded the grocer, genially,
"but whatever it's worth, I don't pay for a job until it's finished."

At
this point Cadge's torrent of eloquence swept away all punctuating
pauses and he became slightly incoherent, but the drift of his harangue
was that because he had worked like a slave and finished the wall
in two days they wanted to rob him of his money. "I'll 'ave the six
dollars for my work, or I'll 'ave the lor on you," he concluded.

He was whispering to her, his lips close to her hair.  And Virginia, though her face was suddenly
hot with the flush mounting to her brow, gave him steadily for answer:

"Whenever you wish, Rod Norton!"

So it was only twenty-four hours later that Ignacio Chavez stood in the old Mission garden
and made his bells talk, just the three upon the western arch, the Little One, La Golondrina,
and Ignacio Chavez, the golden-throated trio that tinkled to the touch of his cunning hand
and seemed to laugh and sing and proclaim the gladdest of glad tidings. Then Ignacio drew his
enrapt gaze earthward from the full moon and made out a man and a girl riding out into the
night, riding toward the Ranch of the Flowers.  And he made the bells laugh again.

"And to-morrow," vowed Ignacio solemnly, "not later than to-morrow or the day thereafter, you
shall have your reward, amigos.  You have told the world of heavy doings; you have rung for
Jim Galloway dead; you have made the music for the wedding of el Señor Nortone.  And it shall
be I who will make a little roof like a house over you.  You will see!"

