"Why, Rachel!" he exclaimed.

"I told you not to come. I told you especially that you were not to come."

"Why did you tell him so?" said Mr. O'Mahony; "and why has he come?"

"Not one kiss, Rachel?" said the lover.

"Oh, kisses, yes! If I didn't kiss you father would think that we had already quarrelled. But
it may be that we must do so. When I had told you everything, that you should rush up to London
to look after me--as though you suspected me!"

"What is there to suspect?" said the father.

"Nothing--I suspect nothing," said Frank. "But there were things which made it impossible that
I should not wish to be nearer. She was insulted."

"Who insulted her?"

"The devil in the shape of a woman," said Rachel. "He takes that shape as often as the other."

"Rachel should not be left in such hands," said Frank.

"My dear Mr. Jones, you have no right to say in what hands I shall be left. My father and I
have got to look after that between us. I have told you over and over again what are my intentions
in the matter. They have been made in utter disregard of myself, and with the most perfect
confidence in you. You tell me that you cannot marry me."

"Not quite at present."

"Very well; I have been satisfied to remain as engaged to you; but I am not satisfied to be
subject to your interference."

"Interference!" he said.

"Well now; I'm going." This came from Mr. O'Mahony. "I've got to see if I can earn a few shillings,
and tell a few truths. I will leave you to fight out your battles among you."

"There will be no battles," said Frank.

"I hope not, but I feel that I can do no good. I have such absolute trust in Rachel, that you
may be quite sure that I shall back her up in whatever she says. Now, good-night," and with
that he took his leave.

"I am glad he has gone, because he would do us no good," said Rachel. "You were angry with
me just now because I spoke of interference. I meant it. I will not admit of any interference
from you." Then she sat with her two hands on her knees, looking him full in the face. "I love
you with all my heart, and am ready to tell everyone that I am to become your wife. They have
a joke about it in the theatre calling me Mrs. Jones; and because nobody believes what anybody
says they think you're a myth. I suppose it is queer that a singing girl should marry Mr. Jones.
I'm to go in the autumn to Covent Garden, and get ever so much more money, and I shall still
talk about Mr. Jones,--unless you and I agree to break it off."

"Certainly not that," said he.

"But it is by no means certain. Will you go back to Ireland to-morrow morning, and undertake
not to see me again, until you come prepared to marry me? If not we must break it off."

"I can hardly do that"

"Then," said she, rising from her chair, "it is broken off, and I will not call myself Mrs.
Jones any more." He too rose from his chair, and frowned at her by way of an answer. "I have
one other suggestion to make," she said. "I shall receive next October what will be quite sufficient
for both of us, and for father too. Come and bear the rough and the smooth together with us."

"And live upon you?"

"I should live upon you without scruple if you had got it. And then I shall bear your interference
without a word of complaint. Nay, I shall thank you for it. I shall come to you for advice
in everything. What you say will be my law. You shall knock down all the Mosses for me;--or
lock them up, which would be so much better. But you must be my husband."

"Not yet. You should not ask me as yet. Think of my father's position. Let this one sad year
pass by."

"Two--three, if there are to be two or three sad years! I will wait for you till you are as
grey as old Peter, and I have not a note left in my throat. I will stick to you like beeswax.
But I will not have you here hanging about me. Do you think that it would not be pleasant for
me to have a lover to congratulate me every day on my little triumphs? Do you think that I
should not be proud to be seen leaning always on your arm, with the consciousness that Mr.
Moss would be annihilated at his very first word? But when a year had passed by, where should
I be? No, Frank, it will not do. If you were at Morony Castle things would go on very well.
As you choose to assume to yourself the right of interference, we must part."

"When you tell me of such a proposition as that made to you by the woman, am I to say nothing?"

"Not a word;--unless it be by letter from Morony Castle, and then only to me. I will not have
you here meddling with my affairs. I told you, though I didn't tell my father, because I would
tell you everything."

"And I am to leave you,--without another word?"

"Yes, without another word. And remember that from this moment I am free to marry any man that
may come the way."

"Rachel!"

"I am free to marry any man that may come the way. I don't say I shall do so. It may take me
some little time to forget you. But I am free. When that has been understood between us I am
sure you will interfere no longer; you will not be so unkind as to force upon me the necessity
of telling the truth to all the people about the theatre. Let us understand each other."

"I understand," said he, with the air of a much injured man.

"I quite know your position. Trusting to your own prospects, you cannot marry me at present,
and you do not choose to accept such income as I can give you. I respect and even approve your
motives. I am living a life before the public as a singer, in which it is necessary that I
should encounter certain dangers. I can do so without fear, if I be left alone. You won't leave
me alone. You won't marry me, and yet you won't leave me to my own devices;--therefore, we
had better part." He took her by the hand sorrowfully, as though preparing to embrace her.
"No, Mr. Jones," she said, "that is all done. I kissed you when my father was here, because
I was then engaged to be your wife. That is over now, and I can only say good-bye." So saying,
she retired, leaving him standing there in her sitting-room.

He remained for awhile meditating on his position, till he began to think that it would be
useless for him to remain there. She certainly would not come down; and he, though he were
to wait for her father's return, would get no more favourable reply from him. He, as he had
promised, would certainly "back up" his daughter in all that she had said. As he went down
out of the room with that feeling of insult which clings to a man when he has been forced to
quit a house without any farewell ceremony, he certainly did feel that he had been ill-used.
But he could not but acknowledge that she was justified. There was a certain imperiousness
about her which wounded his feelings as a man. He ought to have been allowed to be dominant.
But then he knew that he could not live upon her income. His father would not speak to him
had he gone back to Morony Castle expressing his intention of doing so.

CHAPTER XVIII.

FRANK JONES HAS CEASED TO EXIST.

To tell the truth, Rachel had a thorough good cry before she went to bed that night. Though
there was something hard, fixed, imperious, almost manlike about her manner, still she was
as soft-hearted as any other girl. We may best describe her by saying that she was an American
and an actress. It was impossible to doubt her. No one who had once known her could believe
her to be other than she had declared herself. She was loyal, affectionate, and dutiful. But
there was missing to her a feminine weakness, which of all her gifts is the most valuable to
an English woman, till she makes the mistake of bartering it away for women's rights. We can
imagine, however, that the stanchest woman's-right lady should cry for her lost lover. And
Rachel O'Mahony cried bitterly for hers. "It had to be done," she said, jumping up at last
in her bedroom, and clenching her fist as she walked about the chamber. "It had to be done.
A girl situated as I am cannot look too close after herself. Father is more like my son than
my father; he has no idea that I want anything done for me. Nor do I want much," she said,
as she went on rapidly taking the short course of the room. "No one could say a word about
me till I brought my lover forward and showed him to the theatre. I think they did believe
him to be a myth; but a myth in that direction does no harm till he appears in the flesh. They
think that I have made an empty boast about my Mr. Jones. The ugliest girl that ever came out
may do the same thing, and nobody ever thinks anything of it. A lover in the clouds never does
any harm, and now my lover is in the clouds. I know that he has gone, and will never come to
earth again. How much better I love him because he would not take my offer. Then there would
have been a little contempt. And how could I expect him to yield to me in everything, with
this brute Moss insulting me at every turn? I do not think he had the courage to send me that
message, but still! What could I do but tell Frank? And then what could Frank do but come?
I would have come, let any girl have bade me to stay away!" Here she had imagined herself to
be the lover, and not the girl who was loved. "But it only shows that we are better apart.
He cannot marry me, and I cannot marry him. The Squire is at his wits' end with grief." By
"the Squire" Mr. Jones had been signified. "It is better as it is. Father and the Squire ought
never to have been brought together,--nor ought I and Frank. I suppose I must tell them all
at the theatre that Mr. Jones belongs to me no longer. Only if I did so, they would think that
I was holding out a lure to Mahomet M. There's papa. I'll go down and tell him all that need
be told about it." So saying she ascended to their sitting-room.

"Well, my dear, what did you do with Frank?"

"He has gone back to Ireland under the name of Mr. Jones."

"Then there was a quarrel?"

"Oh dear yes! there was safe to be a quarrel."

"Does it suit your book upon the whole?"

"Not in the least. You see before you the most wretched heroine that ever appeared on the boards
of any theatre. You may laugh, but it's true. I don't know what I've got to say to Mr. Moss
now. If he comes forward in a proper manner, and can prove to me that Madame Socani is not
Madame Mahomet M. Moss, I don't know what I can do but accept him. The Adriatic is free to
wed another." Then she walked about the room, laughing to prevent her tears.

"Did you hear anything about Castle Morony?"

"Not a word."

"Or the boy Florian?"

"Not a syllable;--though I was most anxious to ask the question. When you are intent upon any
matter, it does not do to go away to other things. I should have never made him believe that
he was to leave me in earnest, had I allowed him to talk about Florian and the girls. He has
gone now. Well;--good-night, father. You and I, father, are all in all to each other now. Not
but what somebody else will come, I suppose."

"Do you wish that somebody else should come, as you say?"

"I suppose so. Do not look so surprised, father. Girls very seldom have to say what they really
wish. I have done with him now. I had him because I really loved him,--like a fool as I was.
I have got to go in for being a singing girl. A singing woman is better than a singing girl.
If they don't have husbands, they are supposed to have lovers. I hope to have one or the other,
and I prefer the husband. Mr. Jones has gone. Who knows but what the Marquis de Carabas may
come next."

"Could you change so soon?"

"Yes;--immediately. I don't say I should love the Marquis, but I should treat him well. Don't
look so shocked, dear father. I never shall treat a man badly,--unless I stick a knife into
Mahomet M. Moss. It would be best perhaps to get a singing marquis, so that the two of us might
go walking about the world together, till we had got money enough to buy a castle. I am beginning
to believe M. Le Gros. I think I can sing. Don't you think, father, that I can sing?"

"They all say so."

"It is very good to have one about me, like you, who are not enthusiastic. But I can sing,
and I am pretty too;--pretty enough along with my singing to get some fool to care for me.
Yes; you may look astonished. Over there in Galway I was fool enough to fall in love. What
has come of it? The man tells me that he cannot marry me. And it is true. If he were to marry
me what would become of you?"

"Never mind me," said her father.

"And what would become of him; and what would become of me? And what would become of the dreadful
little impediments which might follow? Of course to me Frank Jones is the best of men. I can't
have him; and that is just all about it. I am not going to give up the world because Frank
Jones is lost. Love is not to be lord of all with me. I shall steer my little boat among the
shiny waters of the London theatres, and may perhaps venture among the waves of Paris and New
York; but I shall do so always with my eyes open. Gas is the atmosphere in which I am destined
to glitter; and if a Marquis comes in the way,--why, I shall do the best I can with the Marquis.
I won't bring you to trouble if I can help it, or anyone else with whom I have to do. So good-night,
father." Then she kissed his forehead, and went up to bed leaving him to wonder at the intricacies
of his position.

He had that night been specially eloquent and awfully indignant as to the wrongs done to Ireland
by England. He had dealt with millions of which Great Britain was supposed by him to have robbed
her poor sister. He was not a good financier, but he did in truth believe in the millions.
He had not much capacity for looking into questions of political economy, but he had great
capacity for arguing about them and for believing his own arguments. The British Parliament
was to him an abomination. He read the papers daily, and he saw that the number of votes on
his side fell from sixty to forty, and thirty, and twenty; and he found also that the twenty
were men despised by their own countrymen as well as Englishmen; that they were men trained
to play a false game in order to achieve their objects;--and yet he believed in the twenty
against all the world, and threw in his lot without a scruple and without a doubt. Nor did
he understand at all the strength of his own words. He had been silenced in Ireland and had
rigorously obeyed the pledge that he had given. For he was a man to whom personally his word
was a bond. Now he had come over to London, and being under no promise, had begun again to
use the words which came to him without an effort. As he would sweep back his long hair from
his brows, and send sparks of fire out of his eyes, he would look to be the spirit of patriotic
indignation; but he did not know that he was thus powerful. To tell the truth,--and as he had
said,--to earn a few shillings was the object of his ambition. But now, on this evening, three
London policemen in their full police uniform, with their fearful police helmets on, had appeared
in the room in which his dramatic associates had on this evening given way to Gerald O'Mahony's
eloquence. Nothing had been said to him; but as he came home he was aware that two policemen
had watched him. And he was aware also that his words had been taken down in shorthand. Then
he had encountered his daughter, and all her love troubles. He had heard her expound her views
as to life, and had listened as she had expressed her desire to meet with some Marquis de Carabas.
She had said nothing with which he could find fault; but her whole views of life were absolutely
different from his. According to his ideas, there should be no Marquises, no singing girls
making huge fortunes--only singing girls in receipt of modest sums of money; and that when
dire necessity compelled them. There should be no gorgeous theatres flaring with gas, and certainly
no policemen to take down men's words. Everything in the world was wrong,--except those twenty
Members of Parliament.

Three or four days after this, Rachel found that a report was abroad at the theatre that she
had dissolved her engagement with Mr. Jones. At this time the three policemen had already expressed
their opinion about Mr. O'Mahony; but they, for the present, may be left in obscurity. "Est-il
vrai que M. Jones n'existe plus?" These words were whispered to her, as she was dressing, by
Madame Socani, while Mr. O'Mahony had gone out to say a word to a police detective, who had
called to see him at the theatre. As Madame Socani was an American woman, there was no reason
why she should not have asked the question in English--were it not that as it referred to an
affair of love it may be thought that French was the proper language.

"Mr. Jones isn't any more, as far as I am concerned," said Rachel, passing on.

"Oh, he has gone!" said Madame Socani, following her into the slips. They were both going on
to the stage, but two minutes were allowed to them, while Mahomet M. Moss declared, in piteous
accents, the woe which awaited him because Alberta,--who was personated by Rachel,--had preferred
the rustic Trullo to him who was by birth a Prince of the Empire.

"Yes, Mr. Jones has gone, Madame,--as you are so anxious to know."

"But why? Can it be that there was no Mr. Jones?" Then Rachel flashed round upon the woman.
"I suppose there was no Mr. Jones?"

"O, mio tesor." These last three words were sung in a delicious contralto voice by Elmira,--the
Madame Socani of the occasion,--and were addressed to the Prince of the Empire, who, for the
last six weeks, had been neglecting her charms. Rachel was furious at the attack made upon
her, but in the midst of her fury she rushed on to the stage, and kneeling at the feet of Elmira,
declared her purpose of surrendering the Prince altogether. The rustic Trullo was quite sufficient
for her. "Go, fond girl. Trullo is there, tying up the odoriferous rose." Then they all four
broke out into that grand quartette, in the performance of which M. Le Gros had formed that
opinion which had induced him to hold out such golden hopes to Rachel. Rachel looked up during
one of her grand shakes and saw Frank Jones seated far back among the boxes. "Oh, he hasn't
left London yet," she said to herself, as she prepared for another shake.

"Your papa desires me to say with his kindest love, that he has had to leave the theatre."
This came from Mr. Moss when the piece was ended.

He was dressed as princes of the empire generally do dress on the stage, and she as the daughter
of the keeper of the king's garden.

"So they tell me; very well. I will go home. I suppose he has had business."

"A policeman I fear. Some little pecuniary embarrassment." A rumour had got about the theatre
that Mr. O'Mahony was overwhelmed with money difficulties. Mr. Moss had probably overheard
the rumour.

"I don't believe that at all. It's something political, more likely."

"Very likely, I don't know, I will see you to your house." And Mahomet M. looked as though
he were going to jump into the brougham in the garments of the imperial prince.

"Mr. Moss, I can go very well alone;" and she turned round upon him and stood in the doorway
so as to oppose his coming out, and frowned upon him with that look of anger which she knew
so well how to assume.

"I have that to say to you which has to be said at once."

"You drive about London with me in that dress? It would be absurd. You are painted all round
your eyes. I wouldn't get into a carriage with you on any account."

"In five minutes I will have dressed myself."

"Whether dressed or undressed it does not signify. You know very well that I would on no account
get into a carriage with you. You are taking advantage of me because my father is not here.
If you accompany me I will call for a policeman directly we get into the street."

"Ah, you do not know," said Mr. Moss. And he looked at her exactly as he had looked about an
hour ago, when he was making love to her as Trullo's betrothed.

"Here is my father," she said; for at that moment Mr. O'Mahony appeared within the theatre,
having made his way up from the door in time to take his daughter home.

"Mr. O'Mahony," said Mr. Moss, "I shall do myself the honour of calling to-morrow and seeing
your daughter at her apartments in Gower Street."

"You will see father too," said Rachel.

"I shall be delighted," said Moss. "It will give me the greatest pleasure on earth to see Mr.
O'Mahony on this occasion." So saying the imperial prince made a low bow, paint and all, and
allowed the two to go down into the street, and get into the brougham.

Mr. O'Mahony at once began with his own story. The policeman who had called for him had led
him away round the corner into Scotland Yard, and had there treated him with the utmost deference.
Nothing could be more civil to him than had been the officer. But the officer had suggested
to him that he had been the man who had said some rough words about the Queen, in Galway, and
had promised to abstain in future from lecturing. "To this I replied," said he, "that I had
said nothing rough about the Queen. I had said that the Queen was as nearly an angel on earth
as a woman could be. I had merely doubted whether there should be Queens. Thereupon the policeman
shook his head and declared that he could not admit any doubt on that question. 'But you wouldn't
expect me to allow it in New York,' said I. 'You've got to allow it here,' said he. 'But my
pledge was made as to Ireland,' said I. 'It is all written down in some magistrate's book,
and you'll find it if you send over there.' Then I told him that I wouldn't break my word for
him or his Queen either. Upon that he thanked me very much for my civility, and told me that
if I would hurry back to the theatre I should be in time to take you home. If it was necessary
he would let me hear from him again. 'You will know where to find me,' said I, and I gave him
our address in Farringdon Street, and told him I should be there to-morrow at half-past eight.
He shook hands with me as though I had been his brother;--and so here I am."

Then she began to tell her story, but there did not seem to be much of interest in it. "I suppose
he'll come?" said Mr. O'Mahony.

"Oh, yes, he'll come."

"It's something about M. Le Gros," said he. "You'll find that he'll abuse that poor Frenchman."

"He may save himself the trouble," said Rachel. Then they reached Gower Street, and went to
bed, having eaten two mutton-chops apiece.

On the next morning at eleven o'clock tidings were brought up to Rachel in her bedroom that
Mr. Moss was in the sitting-room downstairs.

"Father is there?" exclaimed Rachel.

Then the girl, who had learned to understand that Mr. Moss was not regarded as a welcome visitor,
assured her that he was at the moment entertained by Mr. O'Mahony. "He's a-telling of what
the perlice said to him in the City, but I don't think as the Jew gentleman minds him much."
From which it may be gathered that Rachel had not been discreet in speaking of her admirer
before the lodging-house servant.

