Phineas saw it all, and did his best for her. "I am sure she cared for him," he said, "though
I do not think it was a well-assorted marriage. They had different ideas about religion, I
fancy. So you saw the hunting in the Brake country to the end? How is our old friend, Mr. Spooner?"

"Don't talk of him, Mr. Finn."

"I rather like Mr. Spooner;--and as for hunting the country, I don't think Chiltern could get
on without him. What a capital fellow your cousin the Duke is."

"I hardly know him."

"He is such a gentleman;--and, at the same time, the most abstract and the most concrete man
that I know."

"Abstract and concrete!"

"You are bound to use adjectives of that sort now, Miss Palliser, if you mean to be anybody
in conversation."

"But how is my cousin concrete? He is always abstracted when I speak to him, I know."

"No Englishman whom I have met is so broadly and intuitively and unceremoniously imbued with
the simplicity of the character of a gentleman. He could no more lie than he could eat grass."

"Is that abstract or concrete?"

"That's abstract. And I know no one who is so capable of throwing himself into one matter for
the sake of accomplishing that one thing at a time. That's concrete." And so the red colour
faded away from poor Adelaide's face, and the unpleasantness was removed.

"What do you think of Laurence's wife?" Erle said to him late in the evening.

"I have only just seen her. The money is there, I suppose."

"The money is there, I believe; but then it will have to remain there. He can't touch it. There's
about £2,000 a-year, which will have to go back to her family unless they have children."

"I suppose she's--forty?"

"Well; yes, or perhaps forty-five. You were locked up at the time, poor fellow,--and had other
things to think of; but all the interest we had for anything beyond you through May and June
was devoted to Laurence and his prospects. It was off and on, and on and off, and he was in
a most wretched condition. At last she wouldn't consent unless she was to be asked here."

"And who managed it?"

"Laurence came and told it all to the Duchess, and she gave him the invitation at once."

"Who told you?"

"Not the Duchess,--nor yet Laurence. So it may be untrue, you know;--but I believe it. He did
ask me whether he'd have to stand another election at his marriage. He has been going in and
out of office so often, and always going back to the Co. Mayo at the expense of half a year's
salary, that his mind had got confused, and he didn't quite know what did and what did not
vacate his seat. We must all come to it sooner or later, I suppose, but the question is whether
we could do better than an annuity of £2,000 a year on the life of the lady. Office isn't very
permanent, but one has not to attend the House above six months a year, while you can't get
away from a wife much above a week at a time. It has crippled him in appearance very much,
I think."

"A man always looks changed when he's married."

"I hope, Mr. Finn, that you owe me no grudge," said Sir Gregory, the Attorney-General.

"Not in the least; why should I?"

"It was a very painful duty that I had to perform,--the most painful that ever befel me. I
had no alternative but to do it, of course, and to do it in the hope of reaching the truth.
But a counsel for the prosecution must always appear to the accused and his friends like a
hound running down his game, and anxious for blood. The habitual and almost necessary acrimony
of the defence creates acrimony in the attack. If you were accustomed as I am to criminal courts
you would observe this constantly. A gentleman gets up and declares in perfect faith that he
is simply anxious to lay before the jury such evidence as has been placed in his hands. And
he opens his case in that spirit. Then his witnesses are cross-examined with the affected incredulity
and assumed indignation which the defending counsel is almost bound to use on behalf of his
client, and he finds himself gradually imbued with pugnacity. He becomes strenuous, energetic,
and perhaps eager for what must after all be regarded as success, and at last he fights for
a verdict rather than for the truth."

"The judge, I suppose, ought to put all that right?"

"So he does;--and it comes right. Our criminal practice does not sin on the side of severity.
But a barrister employed on the prosecution should keep himself free from that personal desire
for a verdict which must animate those engaged on the defence."

"Then I suppose you wanted to--hang me, Sir Gregory."

"Certainly not. I wanted the truth. But you in your position must have regarded me as a bloodhound."

"I did not. As far as I can analyse my own feelings, I entertained anger only against those
who, though they knew me well, thought that I was guilty."

"You will allow me, at any rate, to shake hands with you," said Sir Gregory, "and to assure
you that I should have lived a broken-hearted man if the truth had been known too late. As
it is I tremble and shake in my shoes as I walk about and think of what might have been done."
Then Phineas gave his hand to Sir Gregory, and from that time forth was inclined to think well
of Sir Gregory.

Throughout the whole evening he was unable to speak to Madame Goesler, but to the other people
around him he found himself talking quite at his ease, as though nothing peculiar had happened
to him. Almost everybody, except the Duke, made some slight allusion to his adventure, and
he, in spite of his resolution to the contrary, found himself driven to talk of it. It had
seemed quite natural that Sir Gregory,--who had in truth been eager for his condemnation, thinking
him to have been guilty,--should come to him and make peace with him by telling him of the
nature of the work that had been imposed upon him;--and when Sir Harry Coldfoot assured him
that never in his life had his mind been relieved of so heavy a weight as when he received
the information about the key,--that also was natural. A few days ago he had thought that these
allusions would kill him. The prospect of them had kept him a prisoner in his lodgings; but
now he smiled and chatted, and was quiet and at ease.

"Good-night, Mr. Finn," the Duchess said to him, "I know the people have been boring you."

"Not in the least."

"I saw Sir Gregory at it, and I can guess what Sir Gregory was talking about."

"I like Sir Gregory, Duchess."

"That shows a very Christian disposition on your part. And then there was Sir Harry. I understood
it all, but I could not hinder it. But it had to be done, hadn't it?--And now there will be
an end of it."

"Everybody has treated me very well," said Phineas, almost in tears. "Some people have been
so kind to me that I cannot understand why it should have been so."

"Because some people are your very excellent good friends. We,--that is, Marie and I, you know,--thought
it would be the best thing for you to come down and get through it all here. We could see that
you weren't driven too hard. By the bye, you have hardly seen her,--have you?"

"Hardly, since I was upstairs with your Grace."

"My Grace will manage better for you to-morrow. I didn't like to tell you to take her out to
dinner, because it would have looked a little particular after her very remarkable journey
to Prague. If you ain't grateful you must be a wretch."

"But I am grateful."

"Well; we shall see. Good-night. You'll find a lot of men going to smoke somewhere, I don't doubt."

CHAPTER LXXV

The Trumpeton Feud Is Settled

In these fine early autumn days spent at Matching, the great Trumpeton Wood question was at
last settled. During the summer considerable acerbity had been added to the matter by certain
articles which had appeared in certain sporting papers, in which the new Duke of Omnium was
accused of neglecting his duty to the county in which a portion of his property lay. The question
was argued at considerable length. Is a landed proprietor bound, or is he not, to keep foxes
for the amusement of his neighbours? To ordinary thinkers, to unprejudiced outsiders,--to Americans,
let us say, or Frenchmen,--there does not seem to be room even for an argument. By what law
of God or man can a man be bound to maintain a parcel of injurious vermin on his property,
in the pursuit of which he finds no sport himself, and which are highly detrimental to another
sport in which he takes, perhaps, the keenest interest? Trumpeton Wood was the Duke's own,--to
do just as he pleased with it. Why should foxes be demanded from him then any more than a bear
to be baited, or a badger to be drawn, in, let us say, his London dining-room? But a good deal
had been said which, though not perhaps capable of convincing the unprejudiced American or
Frenchman, had been regarded as cogent arguments to country-bred Englishmen. The Brake Hunt
had been established for a great many years, and was the central attraction of a district well
known for its hunting propensities. The preservation of foxes might be an open question in
such counties as Norfolk and Suffolk, but could not be so in the Brake country. Many things
are, no doubt, permissible under the law, which, if done, would show the doer of them to be
the enemy of his species,--and this destruction of foxes in a hunting country may be named
as one of them. The Duke might have his foxes destroyed if he pleased, but he could hardly
do so and remain a popular magnate in England. If he chose to put himself in opposition to
the desires and very instincts of the people among whom his property was situated, he must
live as a "man forbid." That was the general argument, and then there was the argument special
to this particular case. As it happened, Trumpeton Wood was, and always had been, the great
nursery of foxes for that side of the Brake country. Gorse coverts make, no doubt, the charm
of hunting, but gorse coverts will not hold foxes unless the woodlands be preserved. The fox
is a travelling animal. Knowing well that "home-staying youths have ever homely wits," he goes
out and sees the world. He is either born in the woodlands, or wanders thither in his early
youth. If all foxes so wandering be doomed to death, if poison, and wires, and traps, and hostile
keepers await them there instead of the tender welcome of the loving fox-preserver, the gorse
coverts will soon be empty, and the whole country will be afflicted with a wild dismay. All
which Lord Chiltern understood well when he became so loud in his complaint against the Duke.

But our dear old friend, only the other day a duke, Planty Pall as he was lately called, devoted
to work and to Parliament, an unselfish, friendly, wise man, who by no means wanted other men
to cut their coats according to his pattern, was the last man in England to put himself forward
as the enemy of an established delight. He did not hunt himself,--but neither did he shoot,
or fish, or play cards. He recreated himself with Blue Books, and speculations on Adam Smith
had been his distraction;--but he knew that he was himself peculiar, and he respected the habits
of others. It had fallen out in this wise. As the old Duke had become very old, the old Duke's
agent had gradually acquired more than an agent's proper influence in the property; and as
the Duke's heir would not shoot himself, or pay attention to the shooting, and as the Duke
would not let the shooting of his wood, Mr. Fothergill, the steward, had gradually become omnipotent.
Now Mr. Fothergill was not a hunting man,--but the mischief did not at all lie there. Lord
Chiltern would not communicate with Mr. Fothergill. Lord Chiltern would write to the Duke,
and Mr. Fothergill became an established enemy. Hinc illæ iræ. From this source sprung all
those powerfully argued articles in The Field, Bell's Life, and Land and Water;--for on this
matter all the sporting papers were of one mind.

There is something doubtless absurd in the intensity of the worship paid to the fox by hunting
communities. The animal becomes sacred, and his preservation is a religion. His irregular destruction
is a profanity, and words spoken to his injury are blasphemous. Not long since a gentleman
shot a fox running across a woodland ride in a hunting country. He had mistaken it for a hare,
and had done the deed in the presence of keepers, owner, and friends. His feelings were so
acute and his remorse so great that, in their pity, they had resolved to spare him; and then,
on the spot, entered into a solemn compact that no one should be told. Encouraged by the forbearing
tenderness, the unfortunate one ventured to return to the house of his friend, the owner of
the wood, hoping that, in spite of the sacrilege committed, he might be able to face a world
that would be ignorant of his crime. As the vulpicide, on the afternoon of the day of the deed,
went along the corridor to his room, one maid-servant whispered to another, and the poor victim
of an imperfect sight heard the words--"That's he as shot the fox!" The gentleman did not appear
at dinner, nor was he ever again seen in those parts.

Mr. Fothergill had become angry. Lord Chiltern, as we know, had been very angry. And even the
Duke was angry. The Duke was angry because Lord Chiltern had been violent;--and Lord Chiltern
had been violent because Mr. Fothergill's conduct had been, to his thinking, not only sacrilegious,
but one continued course of wilful sacrilege. It may be said of Lord Chiltern that in his eagerness
as a master of hounds he had almost abandoned his love of riding. To kill a certain number
of foxes in the year, after the legitimate fashion, had become to him the one great study of
life;--and he did it with an energy equal to that which the Duke devoted to decimal coinage.
His huntsman was always well mounted, with two horses; but Lord Chiltern would give up his
own to the man and take charge of a weary animal as a common groom when he found that he might
thus further the object of the day's sport. He worked as men work only at pleasure. He never
missed a day, even when cub-hunting required that he should leave his bed at 3 A.M. He was
constant at his kennel. He was always thinking about it. He devoted his life to the Brake Hounds.
And it was too much for him that such a one as Mr. Fothergill should be allowed to wire foxes
in Trumpeton Wood! The Duke's property, indeed! Surely all that was understood in England by
this time. Now he had consented to come to Matching, bringing his wife with him, in order that
the matter might be settled. There had been a threat that he would give up the country, in
which case it was declared that it would be impossible to carry on the Brake Hunt in a manner
satisfactory to masters, subscribers, owners of coverts, or farmers, unless a different order
of things should be made to prevail in regard to Trumpeton Wood.

The Duke, however, had declined to interfere personally. He had told his wife that he should
be delighted to welcome Lord and Lady Chiltern,--as he would any other friends of hers. The
guests, indeed, at the Duke's house were never his guests, but always hers. But he could not
allow himself to be brought into an argument with Lord Chiltern as to the management of his
own property. The Duchess was made to understand that she must prevent any such awkwardness.
And she did prevent it. "And now, Lord Chiltern," she said, "how about the foxes?" She had
taken care there should be a council of war around her. Lady Chiltern and Madame Goesler were
present, and also Phineas Finn.

"Well;--how about them?" said the lord, showing by the fiery eagerness of his eye, and the
increased redness of his face, that though the matter had been introduced somewhat jocosely,
there could not really be any joke about it.

"Why couldn't you keep it all out of the newspapers?"

"I don't write the newspapers, Duchess. I can't help the newspapers. When two hundred men ride
through Trumpeton Wood, and see one fox found, and that fox with only three pads, of course
the newspapers will say that the foxes are trapped."

"We may have traps if we like it, Lord Chiltern."

"Certainly;--only say so, and we shall know where we are." He looked very angry, and poor Lady
Chiltern was covered with dismay. "The Duke can destroy the hunt if he pleases, no doubt,"
said the lord.

"But we don't like traps, Lord Chiltern;--nor yet poisons nor anything that is wicked. I'd
go and nurse the foxes myself if I knew how, wouldn't I, Marie?"

"They have robbed the Duchess of her sleep for the last six months," said Madame Goesler.

"And if they go on being not properly brought up and educated, they'll make an old woman of
me. As for the Duke, he can't be comfortable in his arithmetic for thinking of them. But what
can one do?"

"Change your keepers," said Lord Chiltern energetically.

"It is easy to say,--change your keepers. How am I to set about it? To whom can I apply to
appoint others? Don't you know what vested interests mean, Lord Chiltern?"

"Then nobody can manage his own property as he pleases?"

"Nobody can,--unless he does the work himself. If I were to go and live in Trumpeton Wood I
could do it; but you see I have to live here. I vote that we have an officer of State, to go
in and out with the Government,--with a seat in the Cabinet or not according as things go,
and that we call him Foxmaster-General. It would be just the thing for Mr. Finn."

"There would be a salary, of course," said Phineas.

"Then I suppose that nothing can be done," said Lord Chiltern.

"My dear Lord Chiltern, everything has been done. Vested interests have been attended to. Keepers
shall prefer foxes to pheasants, wires shall be unheard of, and Trumpeton Wood shall once again
be the glory of the Brake Hunt. It won't cost the Duke above a thousand or two a year."

"I should be very sorry indeed to put the Duke to any unnecessary expense," said Lord Chiltern
solemnly,--still fearing that the Duchess was only playing with him. It made him angry that
he could not imbue other people with his idea of the seriousness of the amusement of a whole
county.

"Do not think of it. We have pensioned poor Mr. Fothergill, and he retires from the administration."

"Then it'll be all right," said Lord Chiltern.

"I am so glad," said his wife.

"And so the great Mr. Fothergill falls from power, and goes down into obscurity," said Madame
Goesler.

"He was an impudent old man, and that's the truth," said the Duchess;--"and he has always been
my thorough detestation. But if you only knew what I have gone through to get rid of him,--and
all on account of Trumpeton Wood,--you'd send me every brush taken in the Brake country during
the next season."

"Your Grace shall at any rate have one of them," said Lord Chiltern.

On the next day Lord and Lady Chiltern went back to Harrington Hall. When the end of August
comes, a Master of Hounds,--who is really a master,--is wanted at home. Nothing short of an
embassy on behalf of the great coverts of his country would have kept this master away at present;
and now, his diplomacy having succeeded, he hurried back to make the most of its results. Lady
Chiltern, before she went, made a little speech to Phineas Finn.

"You'll come to us in the winter, Mr. Finn?"

"I should like."

"You must. No one was truer to you than we were, you know. Indeed, regarding you as we do,
how should we not have been true? It was impossible to me that my old friend should have been--"

"Oh, Lady Chiltern!"

"Of course you'll come. You owe it to us to come. And may I say this? If there be anybody to
come with you, that will make it only so much the better. If it should be so, of course there
will be letters written?" To this question, however, Phineas Finn made no answer.

CHAPTER LXXVI

Madame Goesler's Legacy

One morning, very shortly after her return to Harrington, Lady Chiltern was told that Mr. Spooner
of Spoon Hall had called, and desired to see her. She suggested that the gentleman had probably
asked for her husband,--who, at that moment, was enjoying his recovered supremacy in the centre
of Trumpeton Wood; but she was assured that on this occasion Mr. Spooner's mission was to herself.
She had no quarrel with Mr. Spooner, and she went to him at once. After the first greeting
he rushed into the subject of the great triumph. "So we've got rid of Mr. Fothergill, Lady
Chiltern."

"Yes; Mr. Fothergill will not, I believe, trouble us any more. He is an old man, it seems,
and has retired from the Duke's service."

"I can't tell you how glad I am, Lady Chiltern. We were afraid that Chiltern would have thrown
it up, and then I don't know where we should have been. England would not have been England
any longer, to my thinking, if we hadn't won the day. It'd have been just like a French revolution.
Nobody would have known what was coming or where he was going."

That Mr. Spooner should be enthusiastic on any hunting question was a matter of course; but
still it seemed to be odd that he should have driven himself over from Spoon Hall to pour his
feelings into Lady Chiltern's ear. "We shall go on very nicely now, I don't doubt," said she;
"and I'm sure that Lord Chiltern will be glad to find that you are pleased."

"I am very much pleased, I can tell you." Then he paused, and the tone of his voice was changed
altogether when he spoke again. "But I didn't come over only about that, Lady Chiltern. Miss
Palliser has not come back with you, Lady Chiltern?"

"We left Miss Palliser at Matching. You know she is the Duke's cousin."

"I wish she wasn't, with all my heart."

"Why should you want to rob her of her relations, Mr. Spooner?"

"Because--because--. I don't want to say a word against her, Lady Chiltern. To me she is perfect
as a star;--beautiful as a rose." Mr. Spooner as he said this pointed first to the heavens
and then to the earth. "But perhaps she wouldn't have been so proud of her grandfather hadn't
he been a Duke."

"I don't think she is proud of that."

"People do think of it, Lady Chiltern; and I don't say that they ought not. Of course it makes
a difference, and when a man lives altogether in the country, as I do, it seems to signify
so much more. But if you go back to old county families, Lady Chiltern, the Spooners have been
here pretty nearly as long as the Pallisers,--if not longer. The Desponders, from whom we come,
came over with William the Conqueror."

"I have always heard that there isn't a more respectable family in the county."

"That there isn't. There was a grant of land, which took their name, and became the Manor of
Despond; there's where Spoon Hall is now. Sir Thomas Desponder was one of those who demanded
the Charter, though his name wasn't always given because he wasn't a baron. Perhaps Miss Palliser
does not know all that."

"I doubt whether she cares about those things."

"Women do care about them,--very much. Perhaps she has heard of the two spoons crossed, and
doesn't know that that was a stupid vulgar practical joke. Our crest is a knight's head bowed,
with the motto, 'Desperandum.' Soon after the Conquest one of the Desponders fell in love with
the Queen, and never would give it up, though it wasn't any good. Her name was Matilda, and
so he went as a Crusader and got killed. But wherever he went he had the knight's head bowed,
and the motto on the shield."

"What a romantic story, Mr. Spooner!"

"Isn't it? And it's quite true. That's the way we became Spooners. I never told her of it,
but, somehow I wish I had now. It always seemed that she didn't think that I was anybody."

"The truth is, Mr. Spooner, that she was always thinking that somebody else was everything.
When a gentleman is told that a lady's affections have been pre-engaged, however much he may
regret the circumstances, he cannot, I think, feel any hurt to his pride. If I understand the
matter, Miss Palliser explained to you that she was engaged when first you spoke to her."

"You are speaking of young Gerard Maule."

"Of course I am speaking of Mr. Maule."

"But she has quarrelled with him, Lady Chiltern."

"Don't you know what such quarrels come to?"

"Well, no. That is to say, everybody tells me that it is really broken off, and that he has
gone nobody knows where. At any rate he never shows himself. He doesn't mean it, Lady Chiltern."

"I don't know what he means."

"And he can't afford it, Lady Chiltern. I mean it, and I can afford it. Surely that might go
for something."

"I cannot say what Mr. Maule may mean to do, Mr. Spooner, but I think it only fair to tell
you that he is at present staying at Matching, under the same roof with Miss Palliser."

"Maule staying at the Duke's!" When Mr. Spooner heard this there came a sudden change over
his face. His jaw fell, and his mouth was opened, and the redness of his cheeks flew up to
his forehead.

"He was expected there yesterday, and I need hardly suggest to you what will be the end of
the quarrel."

"Going to the Duke's won't give him an income."

"I know nothing about that, Mr. Spooner. But it really seems to me that you misinterpret the
nature of the affections of such a girl as Miss Palliser. Do you think it likely that she should
cease to love a man because he is not so rich as another?"

"People, when they are married, want a house to live in, Lady Chiltern. Now at Spoon Hall--"

"Believe me, that is in vain, Mr. Spooner."

"You are quite sure of it?"

"Quite sure."

"I'd have done anything for her,--anything! She might have had what settlements she pleased.
I told Ned that he must go, if she made a point of it. I'd have gone abroad, or lived just
anywhere. I'd come to that, that I didn't mind the hunting a bit."

"I'm sorry for you,--I am indeed."

"It cuts a fellow all to pieces so! And yet what is it all about? A slip of a girl that isn't
anything so very much out of the way after all. Lady Chiltern, I shouldn't care if the horse
kicked the trap all to pieces going back to Spoon Hall, and me with it."

"You'll get over it, Mr. Spooner."

"Get over it! I suppose I shall; but I shall never be as I was. I've been always thinking of
the day when there must be a lady at Spoon Hall, and putting it off, you know. There'll never
be a lady there now;--never. You don't think there's any chance at all?"

"I'm sure there is none."

"I'd give half I've got in all the world," said the wretched man, "just to get it out of my
head. I know what it will come to." Though he paused, Lady Chiltern could ask no question respecting
Mr. Spooner's future prospects. "It'll be two bottles of champagne at dinner, and two bottles
of claret afterwards, every day. I only hope she'll know that she did it. Good-bye, Lady Chiltern.
I thought that perhaps you'd have helped me."

"I cannot help you."

"Good-bye." So he went down to his trap, and drove himself violently home,--without, however,
achieving the ruin which he desired. Let us hope that as time cures his wound that threat as
to increased consumption of wine may fall to the ground unfulfilled.

In the meantime Gerard Maule had arrived at Matching Priory.

"We have quarrelled," Adelaide had said when the Duchess told her that her lover was to come.
"Then you had better make it up again," the Duchess had answered,--and there had been an end
of it. Nothing more was done; no arrangement was made, and Adelaide was left to meet the man
as best she might. The quarrel to her had been as the disruption of the heavens. She had declared
to herself that she would bear it; but the misfortune to be borne was a broken world falling
about her own ears. She had thought of a nunnery, of Ophelia among the water-lilies, and of
an early death-bed. Then she had pictured to herself the somewhat ascetic and very laborious
life of an old maiden lady whose only recreation fifty years hence should consist in looking
at the portrait of him who had once been her lover. And now she was told that he was coming
to Matching as though nothing had been the matter! She tried to think whether it was not her
duty to have her things at once packed, and ask for a carriage to take her to the railway station.
But she was in the house of her nearest relative,--of him and also of her who were bound to
see that things were right; and then there might be a more pleasureable existence than that
which would have to depend on a photograph for its keenest delight. But how should she meet
him? In what way should she address him? Should she ignore the quarrel, or recognize it, or
take some milder course? She was half afraid of the Duchess, and could not ask for assistance.
And the Duchess, though good-natured, seemed to her to be rough. There was nobody at Matching
to whom she could say a word;--so she lived on, and trembled, and doubted from hour to hour
whether the world would not come to an end.

The Duchess was rough, but she was very good-natured. She had contrived that the two lovers
should be brought into the same house, and did not doubt at all but what they would be able
to adjust their own little differences when they met. Her experiences of the world had certainly
made her more alive to the material prospects than to the delicate aroma of a love adventure.
She had been greatly knocked about herself, and the material prospects had come uppermost.
But all that had happened to her had tended to open her hand to other people, and had enabled
her to be good-natured with delight, even when she knew that her friends imposed upon her.
She didn't care much for Laurence Fitzgibbon; but when she was told that the lady with money
would not consent to marry the aristocratic pauper except on condition that she should be received
at Matching, the Duchess at once gave the invitation. And now, though she couldn't go into
the "fal-lallery,"--as she called it, to Madame Goesler,--of settling a meeting between two
young people who had fallen out, she worked hard till she accomplished something perhaps more
important to their future happiness. "Plantagenet," she said, "there can be no objection to
your cousin having that money."

"My dear!"

"Oh come; you must remember about Adelaide, and that young man who is coming here to-day."

"You told me that Adelaide is to be married. I don't know anything about the young man."

"His name is Maule, and he is a gentleman, and all that. Some day when his father dies he'll
have a small property somewhere."

"I hope he has a profession."

"No, he has not. I told you all that before."

"If he has nothing at all, Glencora, why did he ask a young lady to marry him?"

"Oh, dear; what's the good of going into all that? He has got something. They'll do immensely
well, if you'll only listen. She is your first cousin."

"Of course she is," said Plantagenet, lifting up his hand to his hair.

"And you are bound to do something for her."

"No; I am not bound. But I'm very willing,--if you wish it. Put the thing on a right footing."

"I hate footings,--that is, right footings. We can manage this without taking money out of
your pocket."

"My dear Glencora, if I am to give my cousin money I shall do so by putting my hand into my
own pocket in preference to that of any other person."

"Madame Goesler says that she'll sign all the papers about the Duke's legacy,--the money, I
mean,--if she may be allowed to make it over to the Duke's niece."

"Of course Madame Goesler may do what she likes with her own. I cannot hinder her. But I would
rather that you should not interfere. Twenty-five thousand pounds is a very serious sum of money."

"You won't take it."

"Certainly not."

"Nor will Madame Goesler; and therefore there can be no reason why these young people should
not have it. Of course Adelaide being the Duke's niece does make a difference. Why else should
I care about it? She is nothing to me,--and as for him, I shouldn't know him again if I were
to meet him in the street."

And so the thing was settled. The Duke was powerless against the energy of his wife, and the
lawyer was instructed that Madame Goesler would take the proper steps for putting herself into
possession of the Duke's legacy,--as far as the money was concerned,--with the view of transferring
it to the Duke's niece, Miss Adelaide Palliser. As for the diamonds, the difficulty could not
be solved. Madame Goesler still refused to take them, and desired her lawyer to instruct her
as to the form by which she could most thoroughly and conclusively renounce that legacy.

Gerard Maule had his ideas about the meeting which would of course take place at Matching.
He would not, he thought, have been asked there had it not been intended that he should marry
Adelaide. He did not care much for the grandeur of the Duke and Duchess, but he was conscious
of certain profitable advantages which might accrue from such an acknowledgement of his position
from the great relatives of his intended bride. It would be something to be married from the
house of the Duchess, and to receive his wife from the Duke's hand. His father would probably
be driven to acquiesce, and people who were almost omnipotent in the world would at any rate
give him a start. He expected no money; nor did he possess that character, whether it be good
or bad, which is given to such expectation. But there would be encouragement, and the thing
would probably be done. As for the meeting,--he would take her in his arms if he found her
alone, and beg her pardon for that cross word about Boulogne. He would assure her that Boulogne
itself would be a heaven to him if she were with him,--and he thought that she would believe
him. When he reached the house he was asked into a room in which a lot of people were playing
billiards or crowded round a billiard-table. The Chilterns were gone, and he was at first ill
at ease, finding no friend. Madame Goesler, who had met him at Harrington, came up to him,
and told him that the Duchess would be there directly, and then Phineas, who had been playing
at the moment of his entrance, shook hands with him, and said a word or two about the Chilterns.
"I was so delighted to hear of your acquittal," said Maule.

"We never talk about that now," said Phineas, going back to his stroke. Adelaide Palliser was
not present, and the difficulty of the meeting had not yet been encountered. They all remained
in the billiard-room till it was time for the ladies to dress, and Adelaide had not yet ventured
to show herself. Somebody offered to take him to his room, and he was conducted upstairs, and
told that they dined at eight,--but nothing had been arranged. Nobody had as yet mentioned
her name to him. Surely it could not be that she had gone away when she heard that he was coming,
and that she was really determined to make the quarrel perpetual? He had three quarters of
an hour in which to get ready for dinner, and he felt himself to be uncomfortable and out of
his element. He had been sent to his chamber prematurely, because nobody had known what to
do with him; and he wished himself back in London. The Duchess, no doubt, had intended to be
good-natured, but she had made a mistake. So he sat by his open window, and looked out on the
ruins of the old Priory, which were close to the house, and wondered why he mightn't have been
allowed to wander about the garden instead of being shut up there in a bedroom. But he felt
that it would be unwise to attempt any escape now. He would meet the Duke or the Duchess, or
perhaps Adelaide herself, in some of the passages,--and there would be an embarrassment. So
he dawdled away the time, looking out of the window as he dressed, and descended to the drawing
room at eight o'clock. He shook hands with the Duke, and was welcomed by the Duchess, and then
glanced round the room. There she was, seated on a sofa between two other ladies,--of whom
one was his friend, Madame Goesler. It was essentially necessary that he should notice her
in some way, and he walked up to her, and offered her his hand. It was impossible that he should
allude to what was past, and he merely muttered something as he stood over her. She had blushed
up to her eyes, and was absolutely dumb. "Mr. Maule, perhaps you'll take our cousin Adelaide
out to dinner," said the Duchess, a moment afterwards, whispering in his ear.

"Have you forgiven me?" he said to her, as they passed from one room to the other.

"I will,--if you care to be forgiven." The Duchess had been quite right, and the quarrel was
all over without any arrangement.

On the following morning he was allowed to walk about the grounds without any impediment, and
to visit the ruins which had looked so charming to him from the window. Nor was he alone. Miss
Palliser was now by no means anxious as she had been yesterday to keep out of the way, and
was willingly persuaded to show him all the beauties of the place.

"I shouldn't have said what I did, I know," pleaded Maule.

"Never mind it now, Gerard."

"I mean about going to Boulogne."

"It did sound so melancholy."

"But I only meant that we should have to be very careful how we lived. I don't know quite whether
I am so good at being careful about money as a fellow ought to be."

"You must take a lesson from me, sir."

"I have sent the horses to Tattersall's, he said in a tone that was almost funereal.

"What!--already?"

"I gave the order yesterday. They are to be sold,--I don't know when. They won't fetch anything.
They never do. One always buys bad horses there for a lot of money, and sells good ones for
nothing. Where the difference goes to I never could make out."

"I suppose the man gets it who sells them."

"No; he don't. The fellows get it who have their eyes open. My eyes never were open,--except
as far as seeing you went."

"Perhaps if you had opened them wider you wouldn't have to go to--"

"Don't, Adelaide. But, as I was saying about the horses, when they're sold of course the bills
won't go on. And I suppose things will come right. I don't owe so very much."

"I've got something to tell you," she said.

"What about?"

"You're to see my cousin to-day at two o'clock."

"The Duke?"

"Yes,--the Duke; and he has got a proposition. I don't know that you need sell your horses,
as it seems to make you so very unhappy. You remember Madame Goesler?"

"Of course I do. She was at Harrington."

"There's something about a legacy which I can't understand at all. It is ever so much money,
and it did belong to the old Duke. They say it is to be mine,--or yours rather, if we should
ever be married. And then you know, Gerard, perhaps, after all, you needn't go to Boulogne."
So she took her revenge, and he had his as he pressed his arm round her waist and kissed her
among the ruins of the old Priory.

