Lady Staunton, freed from the danger of rock and river, had now a new subject of anxiety. Her
two guides confronted each other with angry countenances; for David, though younger by two
years at least, and much shorter, was a stout, well-set, and very bold boy.

"You are the black-coat's son of Knocktarlitie," said the young caird; "if you come here again,
I'll pitch you down the linn like a foot-ball."

"Ay, lad, ye are very short to be sae lang," retorted young Butler undauntedly, and measuring
his opponent's height with an undismayed eye; "I am thinking you are a gillie of Black Donacha;
if you come down the glen, we'll shoot you like a wild buck."

"You may tell your father," said the lad, "that the leaf on the timber is the last he shall
see--we will hae amends for the mischief he has done to us."

"I hope he will live to see mony simmers, and do ye muckle mair," answered David.

More might have passed, but Lady Staunton stepped between them with her purse in her hand,
and taking out a guinea, of which it contained several, visible through the net-work, as well
as some silver in the opposite end, offered it to the caird.

"The white siller, lady--the white siller," said the young savage, to whom the value of gold
was probably unknown. Lady Staunton poured what silver she had into his hand, and the juvenile
savage snatched it greedily, and made a sort of half inclination of acknowledgment and adieu.

"Let us make haste now, Lady Staunton," said David, "for there will be little peace with them
since they hae seen your purse."

They hurried on as fast as they could; but they had not descended the hill a hundred yards
or two before they heard a halloo behind them, and looking back, saw both the old man and the
young one pursuing them with great speed, the former with a gun on his shoulder. Very fortunately,
at this moment a sportsman, a gamekeeper of the Duke, who was engaged in stalking deer, appeared
on the face of the hill. The bandits stopped on seeing him, and Lady Staunton hastened to put
herself under his protection. He readily gave them his escort home, and it required his athletic
form and loaded rifle to restore to the lady her usual confidence and courage.

Donald listened with much gravity to the account of their adventure; and answered with great
composure to David's repeated inquiries, whether he could have suspected that the cairds had
been lurking there,--"Inteed, Master Tavie, I might hae had some guess that they were there,
or thereabout, though maybe I had nane. But I am aften on the hill; and they are like wasps--they
stang only them that fashes them; sae, for my part, I make a point not to see them, unless
I were ordered out on the preceese errand by MacCallummore or Knockdunder, whilk is a clean
different case."

They reached the Manse late; and Lady Staunton, who had suffered much both from fright and
fatigue, never again permitted her love of the picturesque to carry her so far among the mountains
without a stronger escort than David, though she acknowledged he had won the stand of colours
by the intrepidity he had displayed, so soon as assured he had to do with an earthly antagonist.
"I couldna maybe hae made muckle o' a bargain wi' yon lang callant," said David, when thus
complimented on his valour; "but when ye deal wi' thae folk, it's tyne heart tyne a'."

CHAPTER TWENTY-SEVENTH.

              What see you there,
              That hath so cowarded and chased your blood
                          Out of appearance?
                                    Henry the Fifth.

We are under the necessity of returning to Edinburgh, where the General Assembly was now sitting.
It is well known, that some Scottish nobleman is usually deputed as High Commissioner, to represent
the person of the King in this convocation; that he has allowances for the purpose of maintaining
a certain outward show and solemnity, and supporting the hospitality of the representative
of Majesty. Whoever are distinguished by rank, or office, in or near the capital, usually attend
the morning levees of the Lord Commissioner, and walk with him in procession to the place where
the Assembly meets.

The nobleman who held this office chanced to be particularly connected with Sir George Staunton,
and it was in his train that he ventured to tread the High Street of Edinburgh for the first
time since the fatal night of Porteous's execution. Walking at the right hand of the representative
of Sovereignty, covered with lace and embroidery, and with all the paraphernalia of wealth
and rank, the handsome though wasted figure of the English stranger attracted all eyes. Who
could have recognised in a form so aristocratic the plebeian convict, that, disguised in the
rags of Madge Wildfire, had led the formidable rioters to their destined revenge? There was
no possibility that this could happen, even if any of his ancient acquaintances, a race of
men whose lives are so brief, had happened to survive the span commonly allotted to evil-doers.
Besides, the whole affair had long fallen asleep, with the angry passions in which it originated.
Nothing is more certain than that persons known to have had a share in that formidable riot,
and to have fled from Scotland on that account, had made money abroad, returned to enjoy it
in their native country, and lived and died undisturbed by the law.*

* See Arnot's Criminal Trials, 4to ed. p. 235.

The forbearance of the magistrate was, in these instances, wise, certainly, and just; for what
good impression could be made on the public mind by punishment, when the memory of the offence
was obliterated, and all that was remembered was the recent inoffensive, or perhaps exemplary
conduct of the offender?

Sir George Staunton might, therefore, tread the scene of his former audacious exploits, free
from the apprehension of the law, or even of discovery or suspicion. But with what feelings
his heart that day throbbed, must be left to those of the reader to imagine. It was an object
of no common interest which had brought him to encounter so many painful remembrances.

In consequence of Jeanie's letter to Lady Staunton, transmitting the confession, he had visited
the town of Carlisle, and had found Archdeacon Fleming still alive, by whom that confession
had been received. This reverend gentleman, whose character stood deservedly very high, he
so far admitted into his confidence, as to own himself the father of the unfortunate infant
which had been spirited away by Madge Wildfire, representing the intrigue as a matter of juvenile
extravagance on his own part, for which he was now anxious to atone, by tracing, if possible,
what had become of the child. After some recollection of the circumstances, the clergyman was
able to call to memory, that the unhappy woman had written a letter to George Staunton, Esq.,
younger, Rectory, Willingham, by Grantham; that he had forwarded it to the address accordingly,
and that it had been returned, with a note from the Reverend Mr. Staunton, Rector of Willingham,
saying, he knew no such person as him to whom the letter was addressed. As this had happened
just at the time when George had, for the last time, absconded from his father's house to carry
off Effie, he was at no loss to account for the cause of the resentment, under the influence
of which his father had disowned him. This was another instance in which his ungovernable temper
had occasioned his misfortune; had he remained at Willingham but a few days longer, he would
have received Margaret Murdockson's letter, in which were exactly described the person and
haunts of the woman, Annaple Bailzou, to whom she had parted with the infant. It appeared that
Meg Murdockson had been induced to make this confession, less from any feelings of contrition,
than from the desire of obtaining, through George Staunton or his father's means, protection
and support for her daughter Madge. Her letter to George Staunton said, "That while the writer
lived, her daughter would have needed nought from any body, and that she would never have meddled
in these affairs, except to pay back the ill that George had done to her and hers. But she
was to die, and her daughter would be destitute, and without reason to guide her. She had lived
in the world long enough to know that people did nothing for nothing;--so she had told George
Staunton all he could wish to know about his wean, in hopes he would not see the demented young
creature he had ruined perish for want. As for her motives for not telling them sooner, she
had a long account to reckon for in the next world, and she would reckon for that too."

The clergyman said that Meg had died in the same desperate state of mind, occasionally expressing
some regret about the child which was lost, but oftener sorrow that the mother had not been
hanged--her mind at once a chaos of guilt, rage, and apprehension for her daughter's future
safety; that instinctive feeling of parental anxiety which she had in common with the she-wolf
and lioness, being the last shade of kindly affection that occupied a breast equally savage.

The melancholy catastrophe of Madge Wildfire was occasioned by her taking the confusion of
her mother's execution, as affording an opportunity of leaving the workhouse to which the clergyman
had sent her, and presenting herself to the mob in their fury, to perish in the way we have
already seen. When Dr. Fleming found the convict's letter was returned from Lincolnshire, he
wrote to a friend in Edinburgh, to inquire into the fate of the unfortunate girl whose child
had been stolen, and was informed by his correspondent, that she had been pardoned, and that,
with all her family, she had retired to some distant part of Scotland, or left the kingdom
entirely. And here the matter rested, until, at Sir George Staunton's application, the clergyman
looked out, and produced Margaret Murdockson's returned letter, and the other memoranda which
he had kept concerning the affair.

Whatever might be Sir George Staunton's feelings in ripping up this miserable history, and
listening to the tragical fate of the unhappy girl whom he had ruined, he had so much of his
ancient wilfulness of disposition left, as to shut his eyes on everything, save the prospect
which seemed to open itself of recovering his son. It was true, it would be difficult to produce
him, without telling much more of the history of his birth, and the misfortunes of his parents,
than it was prudent to make known. But let him once be found, and, being found, let him but
prove worthy of his father's protection, and many ways might be fallen upon to avoid such risk.
Sir George Staunton was at liberty to adopt him as his heir, if he pleased, without communicating
the secret of his birth; or an Act of Parliament might be obtained, declaring him legitimate,
and allowing him the name and arms of his father. He was indeed already a legitimate child
according to the law of Scotland, by the subsequent marriage of his parents. Wilful in everything,
Sir George's sole desire now was to see this son, even should his recovery bring with it a
new series of misfortunes, as dreadful as those which followed on his being lost.

But where was the youth who might eventually be called to the honours and estates of this ancient
family? On what heath was he wandering, and shrouded by what mean disguise? Did he gain his
precarious bread by some petty trade, by menial toil, by violence, or by theft? These were
questions on which Sir George's anxious investigations could obtain no light. Many remembered
that Annaple Bailzou wandered through the country as a beggar and fortune-teller, or spae-wife--some
remembered that she had been seen with an infant in 1737 or 1738,--but for more than ten years
she had not travelled that district; and that she had been heard to say she was going to a
distant part of Scotland, of which country she was a native. To Scotland, therefore, came Sir
George Staunton, having parted with his lady at Glasgow; and his arrival at Edinburg happening
to coincide with the sitting of the General Assembly of the Kirk, his acquaintance with the
nobleman who held the office of Lord High Commissioner forced him more into public than suited
either his views or inclinations.

At the public table of this nobleman, Sir George Staunton was placed next to a clergyman of
respectable appearance, and well-bred, though plain demeanour, whose name he discovered to
be Butler. It had been no part of Sir George's plan to take his brother-in-law into his confidence,
and he had rejoiced exceedingly in the assurances he received from his wife, that Mrs. Butler,
the very soul of integrity and honour, had never suffered the account he had given of himself
at Willingham Rectory to transpire, even to her husband. But he was not sorry to have an opportunity
to converse with so near a connection without being known to him, and to form a judgment of
his character and understanding. He saw much, and heard more, to raise Butler very high in
his opinion. He found he was generally respected by those of his own profession, as well as
by the laity who had seats in the Assembly. He had made several public appearances in the Assembly,
distinguished by good sense, candour, and ability; and he was followed and admired as a sound,
and, at the same time, an eloquent preacher.

This was all very satisfactory to Sir George Staunton's pride, which had revolted at the idea
of his wife's sister being obscurely married. He now began, on the contrary, to think the connection
so much better than he expected, that, if it should be necessary to acknowledge it, in consequence
of the recovery of his son, it would sound well enough that Lady Staunton had a sister, who,
in the decayed state of the family, had married a Scottish clergyman, high in the opinion of
his countrymen, and a leader in the church.

It was with these feelings, that, when the Lord High Commissioner's company broke up, Sir George
Staunton, under pretence of prolonging some inquiries concerning the constitution of the Church
of Scotland, requested Butler to go home to his lodgings in the Lawnmarket, and drink a cup
of coffee. Butler agreed to wait upon him, providing Sir George would permit him, in passing,
to call at a friend's house where he resided, and make his apology for not coming to partake
her tea. They proceeded up the High Street, entered the Krames, and passed the begging-box,
placed to remind those at liberty of the distresses of the poor prisoners. Sir George paused
there one instant, and next day a L20 note was found in that receptacle for public charity.

When he came up to Butler again, he found him with his eyes fixed on the entrance of the Tolbooth,
and apparently in deep thought.

"That seems a very strong door," said Sir George, by way of saying something.

"It is so, sir," said Butler, turning off and beginning to walk forward, "but it was my misfortune
at one time to see it prove greatly too weak."

At this moment, looking at his companion, he asked him whether he felt himself ill? and Sir
George Staunton admitted, that he had been so foolish as to eat ice, which sometimes disagreed
with him. With kind officiousness, that would not be gainsaid, and ere he could find out where
he was going, Butler hurried Sir George into the friend's house, near to the prison, in which
he himself had lived since he came to town, being, indeed, no other than that of our old friend
Bartoline Saddletree, in which Lady Staunton had served a short noviciate as a shop-maid. This
recollection rushed on her husband's mind, and the blush of shame which it excited overpowered
the sensation of fear which had produced his former paleness. Good Mrs. Saddletree, however,
bustled about to receive the rich English baronet as the friend of Mr. Butler, and requested
an elderly female in a black gown to sit still, in a way which seemed to imply a wish, that
she would clear the way for her betters. In the meanwhile, understanding the state of the case,
she ran to get some cordial waters, sovereign, of course, in all cases of faintishness whatsoever.
During her absence, her visitor, the female in black, made some progress out of the room, and
might have left it altogether without particular observation, had she not stumbled at the threshold,
so near Sir George Staunton, that he, in point of civility, raised her and assisted her to
the door.

"Mrs. Porteous is turned very doited now, puir body," said Mrs. Saddletree, as she returned
with her bottle in her hand--"She is no sae auld, but she got a sair back-cast wi' the slaughter
o' her husband--Ye had some trouble about that job, Mr. Butler.--I think, sir," to Sir George,
"ye had better drink out the haill glass, for to my een ye look waur than when ye came in."

And, indeed, he grew as pale as a corpse, on recollecting who it was that his arm had so lately
supported--the widow whom he had so large a share in making such.

"It is a prescribed job that case of Porteous now," said old Saddletree, who was confined to
his chair by the gout--"clean prescribed and out of date."

"I am not clear of that, neighbour," said Plumdamas, "for I have heard them say twenty years
should rin, and this is but the fifty-ane-- Porteous's mob was in thretty-seven."

"Ye'll no teach me law, I think, neighbour--me that has four gaun pleas, and might hae had
fourteen, an it hadna been the gudewife? I tell ye, if the foremost of the Porteous mob were
standing there where that gentleman stands, the King's Advocate wadna meddle wi' him--it fa's
under the negative prescription."

"Haud your din, carles," said Mrs. Saddletree, "and let the gentleman sit down and get a dish
of comfortable tea."

But Sir George had had quite enough of their conversation; and Butler, at his request, made
an apology to Mrs. Saddletree, and accompanied him to his lodgings. Here they found another
guest waiting Sir George Staunton's return. This was no other than our reader's old acquaintance,
Ratcliffe.

This man had exercised the office of turnkey with so much vigilance, acuteness, and fidelity,
that he gradually rose to be governor, or captain of the Tolbooth. And it is yet to be remembered
in tradition, that young men, who rather sought amusing than select society in their merry-meetings,
used sometimes to request Ratcliffe's company, in order that he might regale them with legends
of his extraordinary feats in the way of robbery and escape.*

* There seems an anachronism in the history of this person. Ratcliffe, among other escapes
from justice, was released by the Porteous mob when under sentence of death; and he was again
under the same predicament, when the Highlanders made a similar jail-delivery in 1745. He was
too sincere a whig to embrace liberation at the hands of the Jacobites, and in reward was made
one of the keepers of the Tolbooth. So at least runs constant tradition.

But he lived and died without resuming his original vocation, otherwise than in his narratives
over a bottle.

Under these circumstances, he had been recommended to Sir George Staunton by a man of the law
in Edinburgh, as a person likely to answer any questions he might have to ask about Annaple
Bailzou, who, according to the colour which Sir George Staunton gave to his cause of inquiry,
was supposed to have stolen a child in the west of England, belonging to a family in which
he was interested. The gentleman had not mentioned his name, but only his official title; so
that Sir George Staunton, when told that the captain of the Tolbooth was waiting for him in
his parlour, had no idea of meeting his former acquaintance, Jem Ratcliffe.

This, therefore, was another new and most unpleasant surprise, for he had no difficulty in
recollecting this man's remarkable features. The change, however, from George Robertson to
Sir George Staunton, baffled even the penetration of Ratcliffe, and he bowed very low to the
baronet and his guest, hoping Mr. Butler would excuse his recollecting that he was an old acquaintance.

"And once rendered my wife a piece of great service," said Mr. Butler, "for which she sent
you a token of grateful acknowledgment, which I hope came safe and was welcome."

"Deil a doubt on't," said Ratcliffe, with a knowing nod; "but ye are muckle changed for the
better since I saw ye, Maister Butler."

"So much so, that I wonder you knew me."

"Aha, then!--Deil a face I see I ever forget," said Ratcliffe while Sir George Staunton, tied
to the stake, and incapable of escaping, internally cursed the accuracy of his memory. "And
yet, sometimes," continued Ratcliffe, "the sharpest hand will be ta'en in. There is a face
in this very room, if I might presume to be sae bauld, that, if I didna ken the honourable
person it belangs to, I might think it had some cut of an auld acquaintance."

"I should not be much flattered," answered the Baronet, sternly, and roused by the risk in
which he saw himself placed, "if it is to me you mean to apply that compliment."

"By no manner of means, sir," said Ratcliffe, bowing very low; "I am come to receive your honour's
commands, and no to trouble your honour wi' my poor observations."

"Well, sir," said Sir George, "I am told you understand police matters-- So do I.--To convince
you of which, here are ten guineas of retaining fee--I make them fifty when you can find me
certain notice of a person, living or dead, whom you will find described in that paper. I shall
leave town presently--you may send your written answer to me to the care of Mr. " (naming his
highly respectable agent), "or of his Grace the Lord High Commissioner." Rateliffe bowed and
withdrew.

"I have angered the proud peat now," he said to himself, "by finding out a likeness; but if
George Robertson's father had lived within a mile of his mother, d--n me if I should not know
what to think, for as high as he carries his head."

When he was left alone with Butler, Sir George Staunton ordered tea and coffee, which were
brought by his valet, and then, after considering with himself for a minute, asked his guest
whether he had lately heard from his wife and family. Butler, with some surprise at the question,
replied, "that he had received no letter for some time; his wife was a poor penwoman."

"Then," said Sir George Staunton, "I am the first to inform you there has been an invasion
of your quiet premises since you left home. My wife, whom the Duke of Argyle had the goodness
to permit to use Roseneath Lodge, while she was spending some weeks in your country, has sallied
across and taken up her quarters in the Manse, as she says, to be nearer the goats, whose milk
she is using; but, I believe, in reality, because she prefers Mrs. Butler's company to that
of the respectable gentleman who acts as seneschal on the Duke's domains."

Mr. Butler said, "He had often heard the late Duke and the present speak with high respect
of Lady Staunton, and was happy if his house could accommodate any friend of theirs--it would
be but a very slight acknowledgment of the many favours he owed them."

"That does not make Lady Staunton and myself the less obliged to your hospitality, sir," said
Sir George. "May I inquire if you think of returning home soon?"

"In the course of two days," Mr. Butler answered, "his duty in the Assembly would be ended;
and the other matters he had in town being all finished, he was desirous of returning to Dumbartonshire
as soon as he could; but he was under the necessity of transporting a considerable sum in bills
and money with him, and therefore wished to travel in company with one or two of his brethren
of the clergy."

"My escort will be more safe," said Sir George Staunton, "and I think of setting off to-morrow
or next day. If you will give me the pleasure of your company, I will undertake to deliver
you and your charge safe at the Manse, provided you will admit me along with you."

Mr. Butler gratefully accepted of this proposal; the appointment was made accordingly, and,
by despatches with one of Sir George's servants, who was sent forward for the purpose, the
inhabitants of the manse of Knocktarlitie were made acquainted with the intended journey; and
the news rung through the whole vicinity, "that the minister was coming back wi' a braw English
gentleman and a' the siller that was to pay for the estate of Craigsture."

This sudden resolution of going to Knocktarlitie had been adopted by Sir George Staunton in
consequence of the incidents of the evening. In spite of his present consequence, he felt he
had presumed too far in venturing so near the scene of his former audacious acts of violence,
and he knew too well, from past experience, the acuteness of a man like Ratcliffe, again to
encounter him. The next two days he kept his lodgings, under pretence of indisposition, and
took leave by writing of his noble friend the High Commissioner, alleging the opportunity of
Mr. Butler's company as a reason for leaving Edinburgh sooner than he had proposed. He had
a long conference with his agent on the subject of Annaple Bailzou; and the professional gentleman,
who was the agent also of the Argyle family, had directions to collect all the information
which Ratcliffe or others might be able to obtain concerning the fate of that woman and the
unfortunate child, and so soon as anything transpired which had the least appearance of being
important, that he should send an express with it instantly to Knocktarlitie. These instructions
were backed with a deposit of money, and a request that no expense might be spared; so that
Sir George Staunton had little reason to apprehend negligence on the part of the persons intrusted
with the commission.

The journey, which the brothers made in company, was attended with more pleasure, even to Sir
George Staunton, than he had ventured to expect. His heart lightened in spite of himself when
they lost sight of Edinburgh; and the easy, sensible conversation of Butler was well calculated
to withdraw his thoughts from painful reflections. He even began to think whether there could
be much difficulty in removing his wife's connections to the rectory of Willingham; it was
only on his part procuring some still better preferment for the present incumbent, and on Butler's,
that he should take orders according to the English Church, to which he could not conceive
a possibility of his making objection, and then he had them residing under his wing. No doubt
there was pain in seeing Mrs. Butler, acquainted, as he knew her to be, with the full truth
of his evil history; but then her silence, though he had no reason to complain of her indiscretion
hitherto, was still more absolutely ensured. It would keep his lady, also, both in good temper
and in more subjection; for she was sometimes troublesome to him by insisting on remaining
in town when he desired to retire to the country, alleging the total want of society at Willingham.
"Madam, your sister is there," would, he thought, be a sufficient answer to this ready argument.

He sounded Butler on this subject, asking what he would think of an English living of twelve
hundred pounds yearly, with the burden of affording his company now and then to a neighbour,
whose health was not strong or his spirits equal. "He might meet," he said, "occasionally,
a very learned and accomplished gentleman, who was in orders as a Catholic priest, but he hoped
that would be no insurmountable objection to a man of his liberality of sentiment. What," he
said, "would Mr. Butler think of as an answer, if the offer should be made to him?"

"Simply that I could not accept of it," said Mr. Butler. "I have no mind to enter into the
various debates between the churches; but I was brought up in mine own, have received her ordination,
am satisfied of the truth of her doctrines, and will die under the banner I have enlisted to."

"What may be the value of your preferment?" said Sir George Staunton, "unless I am asking an
indiscreet question."

"Probably one hundred a-year, one year with another, besides my glebe and pasture-ground."

"And you scruple to exchange that for twelve hundred a-year, without alleging any damning difference
of doctrine betwixt the two churches of England and Scotland?"

"On that, sir, I have reserved my judgment; there may be much good, and there are certainly
saving means in both; but every man must act according to his own lights. I hope I have done,
and am in the course of doing, my Master's work in this Highland parish; and it would ill become
me, for the sake of lucre, to leave my sheep in the wilderness. But, even in the temporal view
which you have taken of the matter, Sir George, this hundred pounds a-year of stipend hath
fed and clothed us, and left us nothing to wish for; my father-in-law's succession, and other
circumstances, have added a small estate of about twice as much more, and how we are to dispose
of it I do not know--So I leave it to you, sir, to think if I were wise, not having the wish
or opportunity of spending three hundred a-year, to covet the possession of four times that sum."

"This is philosophy," said Sir George; "I have heard of it, but I never saw it before."

"It is common sense," replied Butler, "which accords with philosophy and religion more frequently
than pedants or zealots are apt to admit."

Sir George turned the subject, and did not again resume it. Although they travelled in Sir
George's chariot, he seemed so much fatigued with the motion, that it was necessary for him
to remain for a day at a small town called Mid-Calder, which was their first stage from Edinburgh.
Glasgow occupied another day, so slow were their motions.

They travelled on to Dumbarton, where they had resolved to leave the equipage and to hire a
boat to take them to the shores near the manse, as the Gare-Loch lay betwixt them and that
point, besides the impossibility of travelling in that district with wheel-carriages. Sir George's
valet, a man of trust, accompanied them, as also a footman; the grooms were left with the carriage.
Just as this arrangement was completed, which was about four o'clock in the afternoon, an express
arrived from Sir George's agent in Edinburgh, with a packet, which he opened and read with
great attention, appearing much interested and agitated by the contents. The packet had been
despatched very soon after their leaving Edinburgh, but the messenger had missed the travellers
by passing through Mid-Calder in the night, and overshot his errand by getting to Roseneath
before them. He was now on his return, after having waited more than four-and-twenty hours.
Sir George Staunton instantly wrote back an answer, and rewarding the messenger liberally,
desired him not to sleep till he placed it in his agent's hands.

At length they embarked in the boat, which had waited for them some time. During their voyage,
which was slow, for they were obliged to row the whole way, and often against the tide, Sir
George Staunton's inquiries ran chiefly on the subject of the Highland banditti who had infested
that country since the year 1745. Butler informed him that many of them were not native Highlanders,
but gipsies, tinkers, and other men of desperate fortunes, who had taken advantage of the confusion
introduced by the civil war, the general discontent of the mountaineers, and the unsettled
state of police, to practise their plundering trade with more audacity. Sir George next inquired
into their lives, their habits, whether the violences which they committed were not sometimes
atoned for by acts of generosity, and whether they did not possess the virtues as well as the
vices of savage tribes?

Butler answered, that certainly they did sometimes show sparks of generosity, of which even
the worst class of malefactors are seldom utterly divested; but that their evil propensities
were certain and regular principles of action, while any occasional burst of virtuous feeling
was only a transient impulse not to be reckoned upon, and excited probably by some singular
and unusual concatenation of circumstances. In discussing these inquiries, which Sir George
pursued with an apparent eagerness that rather surprised Butler, the latter chanced to mention
the name of Donacha dhu na Dunaigh, with which the reader is already acquainted. Sir George
caught the sound up eagerly, and as if it conveyed particular interest to his ear. He made
the most minute inquiries concerning the man whom he mentioned, the number of his gang, and
even the appearance of those who belonged to it. Upon these points Butler could give little
answer. The man had a name among the lower class, but his exploits were considerably exaggerated;
he had always one or two fellows with him, but never aspired to the command of above three
or four. In short, he knew little about him, and the small acquaintance he had had by no means
inclined him to desire more.

"Nevertheless, I should like to see him some of these days."

"That would be a dangerous meeting, Sir George, unless you mean we are to see him receive his
deserts from the law, and then it were a melancholy one."

"Use every man according to his deserts, Mr. Butler, and who shall escape whipping? But I am
talking riddles to you. I will explain them more fully to you when I have spoken over the subject
with Lady Staunton.--Pull away, my lads," he added, addressing himself to the rowers; "the
clouds threaten us with a storm."

In fact, the dead and heavy closeness of the air, the huge piles of clouds which assembled
in the western horizon, and glowed like a furnace under the influence of the setting sun--that
awful stillness in which nature seems to expect the thunder-burst, as a condemned soldier waits
for the platoon fire which is to stretch him on the earth, all betokened a speedy storm. Large
broad drops fell from time to time, and induced the gentlemen to assume the boat-cloaks; but
the rain again ceased, and the oppressive heat, so unusual in Scotland in the end of May, inclined
them to throw them aside. "There is something solemn in this delay of the storm," said Sir
George; "it seems as if it suspended its peal till it solemnised some important event in the
world below."

"Alas!" replied Butler, "what are we that the laws of nature should correspond in their march
with our ephemeral deeds or sufferings! The clouds will burst when surcharged with the electric
fluid, whether a goat is falling at that instant from the cliffs of Arran, or a hero expiring
on the field of battle he has won."

"The mind delights to deem it otherwise," said Sir George Staunton; "and to dwell on the fate
of humanity as on that which is the prime central movement of the mighty machine. We love not
to think that we shall mix with the ages that have gone before us, as these broad black raindrops
mingle with the waste of waters, making a trifling and momentary eddy, and are then lost for ever."

"For ever!--we are not--we cannot be lost for ever," said Butler, looking upward; "death is
to us change, not consummation; and the commencement of a new existence, corresponding in character
to the deeds which we have done in the body."

While they agitated these grave subjects, to which the solemnity of the approaching storm naturally
led them, their voyage threatened to be more tedious than they expected, for gusts of wind,
which rose and fell with sudden impetuosity, swept the bosom of the firth, and impeded the
efforts of the rowers. They had now only to double a small headland, in order to get to the
proper landing-place in the mouth of the little river; but in the state of the weather, and
the boat being heavy, this was like to be a work of time, and in the meanwhile they must necessarily
be exposed to the storm.

"Could we not land on this side of the headland," asked Sir George, "and so gain some shelter?"

Butler knew of no landing-place, at least none affording a convenient or even practicable passage
up the rocks which surrounded the shore.

"Think again," said Sir George Staunton; "the storm will soon be violent."

"Hout, ay," said one of the boatmen, "there's the Caird's Cove; but we dinna tell the minister
about it, and I am no sure if I can steer the boat to it, the bay is sae fa' o' shoals and
sunk rocks."

"Try," said Sir George, "and I will give you half-a-guinea."

The old fellow took the helm, and observed, "That, if they could get in, there was a steep
path up from the beach, and half-an-hour's walk from thence to the Manse."

"Are you sure you know the way?" said Butler to the old man.

"I maybe kend it a wee better fifteen years syne, when Dandie Wilson was in the firth wi' his
clean-ganging lugger. I mind Dandie had a wild young Englisher wi' him, that they ca'd"

"If you chatter so much," said Sir George Staunton, "you will have the boat on the Grindstone--bring
that white rock in a line with the steeple."

"By G--," said the veteran, staring, "I think your honour kens the bay as weel as me.--Your
honour's nose has been on the Grindstone ere now, I'm thinking."

As they spoke thus, they approached the little cove, which, concealed behind crags, and defended
on every point by shallows and sunken rocks, could scarce be discovered or approached, except
by those intimate with the navigation. An old shattered boat was already drawn up on the beach
within the cove, close beneath the trees, and with precautions for concealment.

Upon observing this vessel, Butler remarked to his companion, "It is impossible for you to
conceive, Sir George, the difficulty I have had with my poor people, in teaching them the guilt
and the danger of this contraband trade--yet they have perpetually before their eyes all its
dangerous consequences. I do not know anything that more effectually depraves and ruins their
moral and religious principles."

Sir George forced himself to say something in a low voice about the spirit of adventure natural
to youth, and that unquestionably many would become wiser as they grew older.

"Too seldom, sir," replied Butler. "If they have been deeply engaged, and especially if they,
have mingled in the scenes of violence and blood to which their occupation naturally leads,
I have observed, that, sooner or later, they come to an evil end. Experience, as well as Scripture,
teaches us, Sir George, that mischief shall hunt the violent man, and that the bloodthirsty
man shall not live half his days--But take my arm to help you ashore."

Sir George needed assistance, for he was contrasting in his altered thought the different feelings
of mind and frame with which he had formerly frequented the same place. As they landed, a low
growl of thunder was heard at a distance.

"That is ominous, Mr. Butler," said Sir George.