Isch. Yes, and grasses [13] turned over at that season, Socrates, serve to supply the soil
already with manure; while as they have not shed their seed as yet, they cannot vegetate. [14]
I am supposing that you recognise a further fact: to form good land, a fallow must be clean
and clear of undergrowth and weeds, [15] and baked as much as possible by exposure to the sun. [16]

 [13] "Herbage," whether grass or other plants, "grass," "clover," etc;
    Theophr. "Hist. Pl." i. 3. 1; Holden, "green crops."

 [14] Lit. "and not as yet have shed their seed so as to spring into
    blade."

 [15] Or, "quitch."

 [16] Holden cf. Virg. "Georg." i. 65, coquat; ii. 260, excoquere. So
    Lucr. vi. 962.

Soc. Yes, that is quite a proper state of things, I should imagine.

Isch. I live in severe loneliness behind the lighted ramp, which by any thoughtless, unused feel separates
me.

How I wish it were different - and that the palpitation, the noise in your warm blood affects me,
not just as the excitement would apply that an inkwell get off. I
Could you tell me at once and completely offer!

All resign,
which I had acquired and long art made by bin, everything down to
your knees in front!

You should only hear from me that I am a woman's sake 'm gone. And the land where it has covered my fame, I want
a single laurel your little kicks as hinbreiten! All my longing is pressing
for the strong, which could, according to the Condottieri of life
that in one hour their whole life devour and happily die.

Instead we now leave cloudy to, we would now meet to die early, O Gemma! Mario Malvolto interrupted
"himself." And now why not tonight?

"he shouted into the permeated shadow between two rose bushes." Why not tomorrow, or every other
day we were happy! Note again, my friend, that you there commit a simple
civil infamy!

You want the girl that you have enjoyed going to be in the near future.
You reveal her secret wretchedness, the only concern you.

You have no right to do so.

Since you've even taken it as a Starker, since you like a piece of prey have your bedroom dragged
in - tu 'your duty to stay strong!

 It's like you come to one of the artists from the past, the two women at
    the same time fully satisfied, one on the canvas of her easel and
one on her bed.



 [2] Or, "it is a maxim held of all men."

Isch. It seems, then, you and I and all mankind hold one opinion on these matters?

Soc. Why, yes; where God himself is teacher, such accord is apt to follow; for instance, all
men are agreed, it is better to wear thick clothes [3] in winter, if so be they can. We light
fires by general consent, provided we have logs to burn.

 [3] Or, "a thick cloak." See Rich, s.v. Pallium (= {imation}).

Yet as regards this very period of seed-time (he made answer), Socrates, we find at once the
widest difference of opinion upon one point; as to which is better, the early, or the later,
[4] or the middle sowing?

 [4] See Holden ad loc. Sauppe, "Lex. Xen.," notes {opsimos} as Ionic
    and poet. See also Rutherford, "New Phryn." p. 124: "First met
    with in a line of the 'Iliad' (ii. 325), {opsimos} does not appear
    till late Greek except in the 'Oeconomicus,' a disputed work of
    Xenophon."

Soc. Just so, for neither does God guide the year in one set fashion, but irregularly, now
suiting it to early sowing best, and now to middle, and again to later.

Isch. But what, Socrates, is your opinion? Were it better for a man to choose and turn to sole
account a single sowing season, be it much he has to sow or be it little? or would you have
him begin his sowing with the earliest season, and sow right on continuously until the latest?

And I, in my turn, answered: I should think it best, Ischomachus, to use indifferently the
whole sowing season. [5] Far better [6] to have enough of corn and meal at any moment and from
year to year, than first a superfluity and then perhaps a scant supply.

 [5] Or, "share in the entire period of seed time." Zeune cf. "Geop."
    ii. 14. 8; Mr. Ruskin's translators, "Bibl. Past." vol. i.; cf.
    Eccles. xi. 6.

 [6] Lit. "according to my tenet," {nomizo}.

Isch. Then, on this point also, Socrates, you hold a like opinion with myself--the pupil to
the teacher; and what is more, the pupil was the first to give it utterance.

So far, so good! (I answered). Is there a subtle art in scattering the seed?

Isch. Let us by all means investigate that point. That the seed must be cast by hand, I presume
you know yourself?

Soc. Yes, by the testimony of my eyes. [7]

 [7] Lit. "Yes, for I have seen it done."

Isch. But as to actual scattering, some can scatter evenly, others cannot. [8]

 [8] Holden cf. W. Harte, "Essays on Husbandry," p. 210, 2nd ed., "The
    main perfection of sowing is to disperse the seeds equally."

Soc. Does it not come to this, the hand needs practice (like the fingers of a harp-player)
to obey the will?

Isch. Precisely so, but now suppose the soil is light in one part and heavy in another?

Soc. I do not follow; by "light" do you mean weak? and by "heavy" strong?

Isch. Yes, that is what I mean. And the question which I put to you is this: Would you allow
both sorts of soil an equal share of seed? or which the larger? [9]

 [9] See Theophr. "Hist. Pl." viii. 6. 2; Virg. "Georg." ii. 275.
    Holden cf. Adam Dickson, "Husbandry of the Ancients," vol. ii. 35.
    33 f. (Edin. 1788), "Were the poor light land in Britain managed
    after the manner of the Roman husbandry, it would certainly
    require much less seed than under its present management."

Soc. The stronger the wine the larger the dose of water to be added, I believe. The stronger,
too, the man the heavier the weight we will lay upon his back to carry: or if it is not porterage,
but people to support, there still my tenet holds: the broader and more powerful the great
man's shoulders, the more mouths I should assign to him to feed. But perhaps a weak soil, like
a lean pack-horse, [10] grows stronger the more corn you pour into it. I am satisfied with it as
a proof of my loneliness unbroken to have in mind. . . This loneliness
is like a sudden wind before the exit.

 

 

Just climb a lot about restless sailors on ship masts and walls, lift, tie off anchor sail, stretch
them out. The next moment the sails are limp along, the ship does not move, people slide down,
stand and look at each other. . . These pages have probably unusual things happening?
 But if you suffer earth
to feed the seed of corn within it and to bring forth fruit in an endless round, at last [13]
it will be hard for the weakened soil to yield large corn crops, even as a weak sow can hardly
rear a large litter of fat pigs.

 [12] "If you will plough the seedlings in again."

 [13] {dia telous... es telos}, "continually... in the end." See
    references in Holden's fifth edition.

Soc. I understand you to say, Ischomachus, that the weaker soil must receive a scantier dose
of seed?

Isch. Most decidedly I do, and you on your side, Socrates, I understand, give your consent
to this opinion in stating your belief that the weaker the shoulders the lighter the burdens
to be laid on them.

Soc. But those hoers with their hoes, Ischomachus, tell me for what reason you let them loose
[14] upon the corn.

 [14] Cf. "Revenues," iv. 5.

