"Morfordsburg. I was there once with my father when I was a boy. He had some ore lands near
where these are;--those he left me. The Cumberland property we always called it. I told you
about it once. It will never amount to anything,--except by expensive boring. That is also
what hurts the value of this new property the Maryland Mining Company owns. That's what they
want Mr. MacFarlane for. Now, what would you do if you were me?"

"What sort of a town is Morfordsburg?" inquired Peter, ignoring Jack's question, his head still
buried between his shoulders.

"Oh, like all other country villages, away from railroad connection."

"Any good houses,--any to rent?"

"Yes,--I saw two."

"And you want my advice, do you, Jack?" he burst out, rising erect in his seat.

"Yes."

"Well, I'd stick to MacFarlane and take Ruth with me."

Jack broke out into a forced laugh. Peter had arrived by a short cut! Now he knew, he was a
mind reader.

"She won't go," he answered in a voice that showed he was open to conviction. Peter, perhaps,
had something up his sleeve.

"Have you asked her?" The old fellow's eyes were upon him now.

"No,--not in so many words."

"Well, try it. She has always gone with her father; she loves the outdoor life and it loves
her. I never saw her look as pretty as she is now, and she has her horse too. Try asking her
yourself, beg her to come along and keep house and make a home for the three of you."

Jack leaned back in his seat, his face a tangle of hopes and fears. What was Uncle Peter driving
at, anyhow?

"I have tried other things, and she would not listen," he said in a more positive tone. Again
the two interviews he had had with Ruth came into his mind; the last one as if it had been
yesterday.

"Try until she DOES listen," continued Peter. "Tell her you will be very lonely if she doesn't
go, and that she is the one and only thing in Corklesville that interests you outside of your
work--and be sure you mention the dear girl first and the work last--and that you won't have
another happy hour if she leaves you in the--"

"Oh!--Uncle Peter!"

"And why not? It's a fact, isn't it? You were honest about Isaac; why not be honest with Ruth?"

"I am."

"No, you're not,--you only tell her half what's in your heart. Tell her all of it! The poor
child has been very much depressed of late, so Felicia tells me, over something that troubles
her, and I wouldn't be at all surprised if you were at the bottom of it. Give yourself an overhauling
and find out what you have said or done to hurt her. She will never forget you for pulling
her father out of that hole, nor will he."

Jack bristled up: "I don't want her to think of me in that way!"

"Oh, you don't! don't you? Oh, of course not! You want her to think of you as a great and glorious
young knight who goes prancing about the world doing good from habit, and yet you are so high
and mighty that--Jack, you rascal, do you know you are the stupidest thing that breathes? You're
like a turkey, my boy, trying to get over the top rail of a pen with its head in the air, when
all it has to do is to stoop a little and march out on its toes."

Jack rose from his seat and walked toward the fire, where he stood with one hand on the mantel.
He knew Peter had a purpose in all his raillery and yet he dared not voice the words that trembled
on his lips; he could tell the old fellow everything in his life except his love for Ruth and
her refusal to listen to him. This was the bitterest of all his failures, and this he would
not and could not pour into Peter's ears. Neither did he want Ruth to have Peter's help, nor
Miss Felicia's; nor MacFarlane's; not anybody's help where her heart was concerned. If Ruth
loved him that was enough, but he wouldn't have anybody persuade her to love him, or advise
with her about loving him. How much Peter knew he could not say. Perhaps!--perhaps Ruth told
him something!--something he was keeping to himself!

As this last thought forced itself into his brain a great surge of joy swept over him. For
a brief moment he stood irresolute. One of Peter's phrases now rang clear: "Stoop a little!"
Stoop?--hadn't he done everything a man could do to win a woman, and had he not found the bars
always facing him?

With this his heart sank again. No, there was no use of thinking anything more about it, nor
would he tell him. There were some things that even Peter couldn't understand,--and no wonder,
when you think how many years had gone by since he loved any woman.

The chime of the little clock rang out.

Jack turned quickly: "Eleven o'clock, Uncle Peter, and I must go; time's up. I hate to leave you."

"And what about the shanty and the cook?" said Peter, his eyes searching Jack's.

"I'll go,--I intended to go all the time if you approved."

"And what about Ruth?"

"Don't ask me, Uncle Peter, not now." And he hurried off to pack his bag.

CHAPTER XX

If Jack, after leaving Peter and racing for the ferry, had, under Peter's advice, formulated
in his mind any plan by which he could break down Ruth's resolve to leave both her father and
himself in the lurch and go out in the gay world alone, there was one factor which he must
have left out of his calculations--and that was the unexpected.

One expression of Peter's, however, haunted him all the way home:--that Ruth was suffering
and that he had been the cause of it. Had he hurt her?--and if so, how and when? With this,
the dear girl's face, with the look of pain on it which Miss Felicia had noticed, rose before
him. Perhaps Peter was right. He had never thought of Ruth's side of the matter--had never
realized that she, too, might have suffered. To-morrow he would go to her. If he could not
win her for himself he could, at least, find out the cause and help relieve her pain.

This idea so possessed him that it was nearly dawn before he dropped to sleep.

With the morning everything changed.

Such a rain had never been known to fall--not in the memory of the oldest moss-back in the
village--if any such ancient inhabitant existed. Twelve hours of it had made rivers of the
streets, quagmires of the roads, and covered the crossings ankle-deep with mud. It had begun
in the night while Isaac was expounding his views on snuff boxes, tunnels, and Voltaire to
Peter and Jack, had followed Jack across the river and had continued to soak into his clothes
until he opened Mrs. Hicks's front door with his private key. It was still pelting away the
next morning, when Jack, alarmed at its fury, bolted his breakfast, and, donning his oilskins
and rubber boots, hurried to the brick office from whose front windows he could get a view
of the fill, the culvert, and the angry stream, and from whose rear windows could be seen half
a mile up the raging torrent, the curve of the unfinished embankment flanking one side of the
new boulevard which McGowan was building under a contract with the village.

Hardly had he slipped off his boots and tarpaulins when MacFarlane, in mackintosh and long
rubber boots, splashed in:

"Breen," said his Chief, loosening the top button of his storm coat and threshing the water
from his cap:

Jack was on his feet in an instant:

"Yes, sir."

"I wish you would take a look at the boulevard spillway. I know McGowan's work and how he skins
it sometimes, and I'm getting worried. Coggins says the water is backing up, and that the slopes
are giving way. You can see yourself what a lot of water is coming down--" here they both gazed
through the open window. "I never saw that stream look like that since I've been here; there
must be a frightful pressure now on McGowan's retaining walls. We should have a close shave
if anything gave way above us. Our own culvert's working all right, but it's taxed now to its
utmost."

Jack unhooked his water-proof from a nail behind the door--he had began putting on his rubber
boots again before MacFarlane finished speaking.

"He will have to pay the bills, sir, if anything gives way--" Jack replied in a determined
voice. "Garry told me only last week that McGowan had to take care of his own water; that was
part of his contract. It comes under Garry's supervision, you know."

"Yes, I know, and that may all be so, Breen," he replied with a flickering smile, "but it won't
do us any good,--or the road either. They want to run cars next month."

The door again swung wide, and a man drenched to the skin, the water glistening on his bushy
gray beard stepped in.

"I heard you were here, sir, and had to see you. There's only four feet lee-way in our culvert,
sir, and the scour's eating into the underpinning; I am just up from there. We are trying bags
of cement, but it doesn't do much good."

MacFarlane caught up his hat and the two hurried down stream to the "fill," while Jack, buttoning
his oilskin jacket over his chest, and crowding his slouch hat close to his eyebrows and ears
strode out into the downpour, his steps bent in the opposite direction.

The sight that met his eyes was even more alarming. The once quiet little stream, with its
stretch of meadowland reaching to the foot of the steep hills, was now a swirl of angry reddish
water careering toward the big culvert under the "fill." There it struck the two flanking walls
of solid masonry, doubled in volume and thus baffled, shot straight into and under the culvert
and so on over the broad fields below.

Up the stream toward the boulevard on the other side of its sky line, groups of men were already
engaged carrying shovels, or lugging pieces of timber as they hurried along its edge, only
to disappear for an instant and reappear again empty-handed. Shouts could be heard, as if some
one were giving orders. Against the storm-swept sky, McGowan's short, squat figure was visible,
his hands waving wildly to other gangs of men who were running at full speed toward where he stood.

Soon a knife-edge of water glistened along the crest of the earth embankment supporting the
roadway of the boulevard, scattered into a dozen sluiceways, gashing the sides of the slopes,
and then, before Jack could realize his own danger, the whole mass collapsed only to be swallowed
up in a mighty torrent which leaped straight at him.

Jack wheeled suddenly, shouted to a man behind him to run for his life, and raced on down stream
toward the "fill" a mile below where MacFarlane and his men, unconscious of their danger, were
strengthening the culvert and its approaches.

On swept the flood, tearing up trees, cabins, shanties, fences; swirling along the tortuous
bed only to leap and swirl again, its solid front bristling with the debris it had wrenched
loose in its mad onslaught, Jack in his line of flight keeping abreast of its mighty thrust,
shouting as he ran, pressing into service every man who could help in the rescue.

But MacFarlane had already been forewarned. The engineer of the morning express, who had crossed
close to the boulevard at the moment the break occurred, had leaned far out of his cab as the
train thundered by at right angles to the "fill," and with cupped hands to his mouth, had hurled
this yell into the ravine:

"Water! Look out! Everything busted up above! Water! Water! Run, for God's sake!"

The men stood irresolute, but MacFarlane sprang to instant action. Grabbing the man next him,--an
Italian who understood no English--he dragged him along, shouting to the others, the crowd
swarming up, throwing away their shovels in their flight until the whole posse reached a point
of safety near the mouth of the tunnel.

There he turned and braced himself for the shock. He realized fully what had happened: McGowan's
ill-constructed culvert had sagged and choked; a huge basin of water had formed behind it;
the retaining walls had been undermined and the whole mass was sweeping down upon him. Would
there be enough of it to overflow the crest line of his own "fill" or not? If it could stand
the first on-thrust there was one chance in a hundred of its safety, provided the wing-walls
and the foundations of the culvert held up its arch, thus affording gradual relief until the
flood should have spent its force.

It was but a question of minutes. He could already see the trees sway as the mad flood struck
them, the smaller ones rebounding, the large ones toppling over. Then came a dull roar like
that of a tram through a covered bridge, and then a great wall of yellow suds, boiling, curling,
its surface covered with sticks, planks, shingles, floating barrels, parts of buildings, dashed
itself against the smoothed earth slopes of his own "fill," surged a third of its height, recoiled
on itself, swirled furiously again, and then inch by inch rose toward the top. Should it plunge
over the crest, the "fill" would melt away as a rising tide melts a sand fort, the work of
months be destroyed, and his financial ruin be a certainty.

But the man who had crawled out on the shore end of the great cantilever bridge over the Ohio,
and who had with his own hands practically set the last rebellious steel girder one hundred
feet above the water level, had still some resources left. Grabbing a shovel from a railroad
employee, he called to his men and began digging a trench on the tunnel end of the "fill" to
form a temporary spillway should the top of the flood reach the crest of the road bed.

Fifty or more men sprang to his assistance with pick and shovel wherever one could stand and
dig. The water had now reached within five feet of the top: the rise was slower, showing that
the volume had lessened; the soakage, too, was helping, but the water still gained. The bottom
of the trench, cut transversely across the road bed of the "fill," out of which the dirt was
still flying from scores of willing shovels, had reached the height of the flood line. It was
wide enough and deep enough to take care of the slowly rising overflow and would relieve the
pressure on the whole structure; but the danger was not there. What was to be feared was the
scour on the down-stream--far side--slope of the "fill." This also, was of loose earth: too
great a gulch might mean total collapse.

To lessen this scour MacFarlane had looted a carload of plank switched on to a siding, and
a gang of men in charge of Jack,--who had now reached his Chief's side,--were dragging them
along the downstream slope to form sluices with which to break the force of the scour.

The top of the flood now poured into the mouth of the newly dug trench, biting huge mouthfuls
of earth from its sides in its rush; spreading the reddish water fan-like over the down-stream
slope: first into gullies; then a broad sluiceway that sunk out of sight in the soft earth;
then crumblings, slidings of tons of sand and gravel, with here and there a bowlder washed
clean; the men working like beavers,--here to free a rock, there to drive home a plank, the
trench all the while deepening, widening--now a gulch ten feet across and as deep, now a canon
through which surged a solid mass of frenzied water.

With the completion of the first row of planking MacFarlane took up a position where he could
overlook all parts of the work. Every now and then his eyes would rest on a water-gauge which
he had improvised from the handle of a pick; the rise and fall of the wet mark showing him
both the danger and the safety lines. He seemed the least interested man in the group. Once
in a while he would consult his watch, counting the seconds, only to return to the gauge.

That thousands of dollars' damage had so far been done did not seem to affect him in the least.
Only when Jack would call out that everything so far was solid on the main "fill" did his calm
face light up.

Tightening his wide slouch hat farther down on his head, he drew up the tops of his high-water
boots and strode through the slush to the pick-handle. His wooden record showed that half an
hour before the water had been rising at the rate of an inch every three minutes; that it had
then taken six, and now required eight! He glanced at the sky; it had stopped raining and a
light was breaking in the West.

Pocketing his watch he beckoned to Jack:

"The worst is over, Breen," he said in a voice of perfect calmness--the tone of a doctor after
feeling a patient's pulse. "Our culvert is doing its work and relieving the pressure. This
water will be out of here by morning. Tell the foreman to keep those planks moving wherever
they do any good, but they won't count much longer. You can see the difference already in the
overflow. And now go up to the house and tell Ruth. She may not know we are all right and will
be worrying."

Jack's heart gave a bound. No more delightful duty could devolve on him.

"What shall I tell her about the damage if she asks me, sir?" he demanded, hiding his pleasure
in a perfunctory, businesslike tone, "and she will."

"Tell her it means all summer here for me and no new bonnets for her until next winter," replied
MacFarlane with a grim smile.

"Yes, I suppose, but I referred to the money loss," Jack laughed in reply. "There is no use
worrying her if we are not to blame for this." He didn't intend to worry her. He was only feeling
about for some topic which would prolong his visit and encourage conversation.

"If we are, it means some thousands of dollars on the wrong side of the ledger," answered MacFarlane
after a pause, a graver tone in his voice. "But don't tell Ruth that. Just give her my message
about the bonnet--she will understand."

"But not if McGowan is liable," argued Jack. If Ruth was to hear bad news it could at least
be qualified.

"That depends somewhat on the wording of his contract, Breen, and a good deal on whether this
village wants to hold him to it. I'm not crossing any bridges of that kind, and don't you.
What I'm worrying about is the number of days and nights it's going to take to patch this work
so they can get trains through our tunnel--And, Breen--"

"Yes, sir," answered Jack, as he stopped and looked over his shoulder. There were wings on
his feet now.

"Get into some dry clothes before you come back."

While all this had been going on Ruth had stood at the window in the upper hall opposite the
one banked with geraniums, too horrified to move. She had watched with the aid of her opera-glass
the wild torrent rushing through the meadow, and she had heard the shouts of the people in
the streets and the prolonged roar when the boulevard embankment gave way.

The hurried entrance and startled cry of the grocer's boy in the kitchen below, and the loud
talk that followed, made her move to the head of the stairs. There she stood listening, her
heart in her mouth, her knees trembling. Such expressions as "drownded,"--"more'n a hundred
of 'em--" reached her ears. Then came the words--"de boss's work busted; ain't nobody seen
him alive, so dey say."

For an instant she clutched the hand rail to keep her from falling, then with a cry of terror
she caught up an old cloth cape, bound a hat to her head with a loose veil, and was downstairs
and into the street before the boy had reached the curb.

"Yes, mum," he stammered, breathlessly, his eyes bulging from his head,--"Oh! it's awful, mum!
Don't know how many's drownded! Everybody's shovelin' on de railroad dump, but dere ain't nothin'
kin save it, dey say!"

