The representative of young democracy was a soldier of France, the Marquis de Lafayette. Primitive
America on the one hand, ancient Europe on the other! "Father," said the Indian, "we have heard
thy voice and we rejoice that thou hast visited thy children to give to them good and necessary
advice. Thou hast said that we have done wrong in opening our ears to wicked men, and closing
our hearts to thy counsels. Father, it is all true; we have left the good path; we have wandered
away from it and have been enveloped in a black cloud. We have now returned that thou mayest
find in us good and faithful children. We rejoice to hear thy voice among us. It seems that
the Great Spirit has directed thy footsteps to this council of friendship to smoke the calumet
of peace and fellowship with thy long-lost children."

The Indian warrior's vision was true in a greater sense than he knew. Through him the soul
of America spoke to the soul of Europe, and it spoke of the fellowship of man. Perhaps the
footsteps of this soldier of France were indeed directed by a high Providence. Perhaps he was
himself a message from the infinite. I love, for my own part, to believe that at his birth
there appeared in this world an eternal and mighty spirit, a spirit perhaps from another age
or sphere. Who knows? Why not? Who is there can look into the great unknown, the vast and impenetrable
depths of the heavens, and say that this could not be, and was not so? How else explain this
child of a French monarchy, brought up among the titled nobility of France, who amidst such
conditions grew to manhood--the devotee of freedom and the ever-loyal champion of democracy?

Lafayette was born on September 6, 1757, at the Château de Chavagnac in the province of Auvergne
in the monarchy of France. Two months before his birth his father was killed in battle. Left
to the sole guidance of an indulgent mother, surrounded by flattering attendants and the enervating
influences of wealth and noble birth, he faced the empty and useless life of a mere titled,
wealthy aristocrat. What saved him? To add to these inauspicious beginnings, he was, at the
age of twelve, sent to Paris to the College du Plessis where his rank and wealth introduced
him to all the gaieties and dissipations of exclusive fashionable Parisian society. His mother
died when he was but thirteen, leaving him in the full possession of large and valuable estates,
the absolute master of his own destiny, and subject to the indulgences and corruptions of one
of the most notorious courts of all Europe. Of a winning personality, he was appointed one
of the King's pages, a position much coveted by the princes and nobles of the kingdom. He was
also enrolled in the King's Regiment of Mousquetaires, and at the age of fifteen through the
favour of the Queen obtained a commission, an honour conferred as a mark of especial royal
regard. He was married at the age of sixteen, and his young wife was a daughter of the aristocratic
house of Noailles, one of the most powerful and influential families of the French court. What
more profoundly barren soil could be chosen to produce the self-denying fighter for liberty,
the clean-minded democrat, Lafayette?

A significant incident is told of his early life. Shortly after his marriage, his wife's family
sought for him an honorary position in the household of the Count de Provençe, afterward Louis
XVIII King of France. Lafayette did not wish the appointment. The spirit of Lafayette, the
democrat, was already restive under royal authority. To prevent the honour being thrust upon
him, and in order at the same time not to offend his family by refusing to accept, he sought
an opportunity to make himself so obnoxious to the Count that the arrangement could not go
through. The chance offered itself at a masked ball where the Count appeared in a disguise
which was instantly penetrated by Lafayette. Making himself known, he lost no time in engaging
in conversation the royal personage, who thought himself unknown, and with a freedom and boldness
bordering upon discourtesy, he gave voice to facts and opinions which he knew would be obnoxious
to his listener's ear. The future King of France had little hesitation in making up his mind
that the young Marquis would be a refractory attaché, and declined to make the requested appointment.

Providence, or his own spirit, had saved Lafayette for democracy.

II

In 1775 in the new western hemisphere democracy was born to the modern world.

Across the vast Atlantic rolled its echoes. Across a trackless sea, across the lands of France,
up through the great White Ways of Paris it resounded. It knocked against the palace doors
of the King of France. On through the flippant gibe, the careless laugh, the carousing and
the din of the royal court, it reached and touched the spirit of Lafayette.

What was the strange tale that came to him from the New World? Was it a tale of liberty triumphant
and conquering, a tale of success, a tale to touch the imagination of a soldier through the
glory of a winning cause? Far from it. After a brief temporary success in Massachusetts the
cause of the newly-born confederated American republics seemed to be tottering upon the brink
of total destruction. The rout of the Americans at Brooklyn and the consequent abandonment
of Long Island was followed by their evacuation of New York City. The American army was becoming
demoralized. The militia were impatient to return home, were disobedient to orders, and were
deserting in large numbers--it is said "by half and even by whole regiments." Then followed
the Americans' defeat at White Plains, the surrender of Fort Washington, the evacuation of
Fort Lee, and the steady disheartening of the American forces. The ineffectual attempts to
increase the militia, the indisposition of the inhabitants to farther resistance, the retreat
of General Washington through New Jersey at the head of less than three thousand men, poorly
armed, almost without tents, blankets, or provisions, discouraged by constant reverses, many
of them half-clad and barefooted in the cold of November and December, passing through a desponding
country and pursued by a numerous, well-appointed, and victorious army--all these events made
liberty at this time indeed

    "A wretched soul bruised with adversity."

It was at this stage of the conflict that Lafayette determined to cross the Atlantic and take
up the cause of the thirteen little republics. Benjamin Franklin, one of America's two representatives
in France, who at first had welcomed this offer of assistance, upon learning of the continued
American reverses, and almost despairing of the success of the cause, is reported honourably
to have endeavoured to dissuade the Marquis from carrying his design into execution. Franklin
and Silas Deane, the other American representative in France, told him they were unable to
obtain a vessel for his passage. France was then at peace, and the King of France forbade his
departure. Under the laws of France he risked the confiscation of all his property, as well
as capture on the high seas. There was no winning cause to lure him, merely thirteen little
newly-born republics struggling for a principle, fighting for democracy--a weak, bedraggled,
and dispirited democracy, a democracy half-clad and poverty stricken, a barefooted, half-naked
democracy that was very nearly down and out.

"Now," he replied to Franklin and Deane, "is precisely the moment to serve your cause; the
more people are discouraged, the greater utility will result from my departure; and if you
cannot furnish me with a vessel, I shall charter one at my own expense to convey your despatches
and my person to the shores of America."

In a Paris paper of that year, there appears the following item:

    Paris, April 4, 1777.

    One of the richest of our young nobility, the Marquis de Lafayette,
    a relation of the Duke de Noailles, between nineteen and twenty
    years of age, has at his own expense hired a vessel and provided
    everything necessary for a voyage to America, with two officers of
    his acquaintance. He set out last week, having told his lady and
    family that he was going to Italy. He is to serve as Major-General
    in the American army.

III

Lafayette arrived in America in June, 1777, and at once plunged into the struggle. He refused
an active command at first, preferring to serve in a more humble capacity until accustomed
to American troops. In the Battle of Brandywine, only some forty days after his arrival, he
received a wound from a musket ball--a wound sufficient to keep him in bed for six weeks. This
battle was a defeat for the American forces and was followed by the fall of the City of Philadelphia.
Wounds and defeat seem, however, to have acted only as a stimulus, and in December, 1777, as
a reward for intrepid and brilliant service, he was given the command of a division of the
American army. He was then twenty years of age.

Then followed four years of active service under General Washington, broken only by a temporary
return to France in 1779 on a diplomatic mission. Gentle and courteous, yet apparently insensible
to fear, his spirit was an inspiration. At the Battle of Monmouth the enemy, during a lull,
observed a general officer in the service of the Americans advancing into the danger zone,
with some other officers and men, to reconnoitre the enemy's position. An aide-de-camp fell,
struck by a ball, and all but the general fled precipitately. They saw the latter, although
under the fire of a battery, lean to assist the stricken aide, and finding that all was ended
turn and slowly rejoin the others. The British commander, General Clinton, ordered his men
not to fire; and the chivalry of this Englishman probably saved the American officer's life.
It was Lafayette.

In 1780 he asked leave to take a position in the Southern Department where the situation of
the American army is described in a letter to Lafayette by General Greene, then commanding
the division.

"It is now within a few days of the time when you shall be with me. We live from hand to mouth,
and have nothing to subsist on but what we collect with armed parties.... I fear this department
is to be the great Serbonian bog to the American armies and particularly to the general officers."

The vision of a Serbonian bog acted only as a magnet, and Lafayette started to join Greene.
On his way, however, he was recalled by the commander-in-chief, General Washington, to take
command of an expedition against Benedict Arnold, the traitor, now a brigadier-general in the
enemy's army, who was marching into Virginia and with revengeful fury carrying fire and sword
wherever he went. Lafayette was dispatched against him with specific orders that if Arnold
surrendered there should be no stipulation made for his safety, and at the same time forbidding
the slightest injury to his person;--it being the purpose of Washington, never however fulfilled,
to bring Arnold to public punishment according to the rules and regulations of the army.

Lafayette's command seems to have been no better than Greene's. In a letter to Greene he describes
his men as being in a condition of "shocking nakedness." Even the officers were destitute of
money, clothing, and everything that could contribute to cleanliness and comfort. As for the
men, they were poorly fed, their shoes worn out, without tents, and destitute of almost any
protection from the inclemency of the weather. Some of his officers assured the Marquis that
his command would speedily be reduced one-half by desertion,--and as a matter of fact thirteen
out of one company deserted in a single day. A nauseous and contagious disease, generally produced
by a want of cleanliness, overspread nearly the entire command. In consequence of these difficulties,
Arnold escaped, but Lafayette forced his retreat.

The military genius of George Washington at last turned the tide of war. In October, 1781,
he had the enemy's troops under Cornwallis cornered at Yorktown. In the course of the siege
it became necessary to capture a certain redoubt possessed by the enemy. Washington determined
to carry it with the bayonet, and appointed Lafayette to conduct the charge. The American infantry
advanced with irresistible power, relying entirely upon their bayonets, and carried the redoubt
by assault.

Shortly afterward Cornwallis surrendered his entire army to Washington, and the last battle
of the American Revolution had been fought. In November, 1781, the confederated republics having
won, Lafayette returned to France.

Washington and Lafayette! The American and the Frenchman. Great soldiers both, but above all,
great men.

IV

The scene in the world-wide drama of democracy shifts across the Atlantic Ocean, from America
to France. The French Revolution of 1789 and the Reign of Terror--a century's pent-up rage
against despotism, let loose in a single hour!

When Madame Roland was summoned before the revolutionary tribunal she came with a smile upon
her lips, her face sparkling with life and animation. The different groups passed in silence
and appeared in perfect discipline.Orders were given by whistles never speaking a word. With a funeral
slowness they marched in death like stillness and in single file .They marched and marched through the
town. One column was going northe the other was heading south.This cross over kept the line going
in continuity in almost unbroken lines. The effect was creating a impression of hugh numbers
and they kept this up for almost 2 hours.Then the Klan left as quiet as they came they were
gone. The crowd that gather was more than they had been before mystified. Curiosity grew instead of
being satisfied. The efforts of the cunning to know who the Klan was failed. A country man into the city
who was said to know every horse in the county was sure he could
identify the riders from their horses. He stayed in town to identify
the riders.

The Klan had disguised the horses as well as themselves.He would not be baffled as one rider stopped near
him he lifted the cover to find his own horse and saddle.The rider never tried to stop him.The town was aware and
looked to see who in their town was with the Ku Klux.They looked to see who in the crowd
of spectators was missing only to find that most young men of the town were in the crowd and
with the spectators.The Klan had kept the towns young men out of the parade.

The demonstration achieved its goals. The greatest illusion seemed to be the numbers of participants. People
with good judgment, were sure that the numbers were at least three
thousand.
 Democracy in America was a victor,
and the republic had been established. Democracy in France was just entering upon its cyclonic
and hideous struggle for the right to live.

The government of France was at that time an absolute despotism. The king was the supreme arbiter
of its destinies. He was the head of the army. He appointed his own ministers, made his own
laws, levied and raised taxes at his pleasure, and lavished his treasures as he pleased. The
common people were more like cattle than men. They tilled the ground and bore the yoke; the
king and the aristocracy wielded the whip. Years of suffering ignorance for the many--years
of riotous profligacy for the few!

True democracy is world-wide. It knows no nationality. All mankind are its countrymen. When
at the close of the American war Lafayette returned to France, he hung in his house a copy
of the American Declaration of Independence upon one of the walls, leaving the corresponding
space on the opposite side vacant. "What do you mean to place here?" asked one of his friends.
"A Declaration of Rights for France," he replied.

Frederick the Great, King of Prussia, the first giant of the Hohenzollerns and the fountain
head of modern Prussian autocracy, attracted by Lafayette's military reputation, invited him
to the royal palace at Potsdam to witness and take part in the review of the Prussian army.
At dinner one evening Frederick declared confidently his opinion that America would not long
be a republic, but would return to the good old system. "Never, sir," replied his guest. "A
monarchy, a nobility can never exist in America." "Sir," said the monarch, "I knew a young
man who, after having visited countries where liberty and equality reigned, conceived the idea
of establishing the same system in his own country. Do you know what happened to him?" "No,
sir." "He was hanged," replied the King with a smile.

In 1789 the mutterings of the coming storm became more ominous, but the King of France, deafened
by the clamour of cackling advice from his aristocracy, either could not or would not hear.
Almost bankrupt because of the extravagance of the court, he needed money, still more money,
and called an "assembly of notables" to assist in devising measures to relieve his embarrassed
finances. They were men from the most distinguished of the nobility. Lafayette was one. In
a letter to Washington he humorously remarked that "wicked people called them not-ables." Lafayette's
part in the assembly consisted in making a bold protest against the prodigality of the crown.
"All the millions given up to cupidity or depredation," he forcefully exclaimed to the noble
gathering, "are the fruit of the sweat, the tears, and perhaps the blood, of the nation"; and
he concluded by requesting that the King convoke a real National Assembly, made up of representatives
of the common people. It was the beginning of the Revolution. For Lafayette's part in this
the King's prime minister, Calonne, proposed to the monarch to send Lafayette to the Bastile.

Nothing was accomplished by the notables, and the monarch then decided to assemble the states-general.
This was not a legislative body, but an assembly of representatives from the nobility, the
clergy, and the common people, sometimes called by the crown when it needed assistance, the
commons always being in the minority. The commons, le tiers état grasped the opportunity, met
by themselves, and on June 17, 1789, resolved themselves into a National Assembly, to accomplish
the regeneration of France.

Troops were summoned by the crown to put down the rebellion, and more than fifty thousand mercenary
troops from foreign states were engaged by the King to take the place of the French troops,
whom he distrusted. Lafayette joined with the National Assembly, and then and there proposed
to it the first draft of that French Declaration of Rights for which he had prophetically left
a space on the wall of his home. The essence of his draft lies in the following extract: "No
man can be subject to any laws, excepting those which have received the assent of himself or
his representatives, and which are promulgated beforehand and applied legally. The principle
of all sovereignty resides in the nation."

On July 14, 1789, the storm broke. The gigantic fortress of the Bastile which for ages had
reared its menacing head among the people of Paris, a terrible engine of despotic military
autocracy, was attacked and taken by the mob. M. De Launay, its Governor, was killed by a bayonet
thrust, and his head cut from his body and carried through the streets upon a pitchfork. "And
in this bloody manner, into those dungeons where thousands had wasted away, often without trial
and with no knowledge of the charges against them, liberty sent her first ray of sunlight."

"When oppression renders a revolution necessary, insurrection becomes the holiest of duties,"
was the ringing message of Lafayette to the Assembly. The key of the Bastile was given to him
as the representative of freedom in Europe, and together with a sketch of the ruins of that
fortress of despotism, he sent it to George Washington.

A National Guard, a new army of two hundred thousand citizen soldiers, was authorized and formed
by the National Assembly, both for the protection of the rights of the people at home and for
resistance to possible foreign aggression. Lafayette, now thirty-two years of age, was chosen
its commander-in-chief. Thus was born democracy in France.

VI

A foreign peasant, from a land of despotic autocracy, who had just immigrated to the United
States, was once haled into one of our police courts, charged with almost murdering his wife
with a club. His defense was that he now was in a land of liberty and he thought he could do
what he liked. Multiply this by a million-fold and you have the Reign of Terror, the second
chapter of the French Revolution.

"Aimez les amis du peuple et l'enthousiasme pour la liberté, mais réservez l'aveugle soumission
pour la loi," said Lafayette to the Federation of National Guards. The atrocities, both at
the storming of the Bastile and afterward, he would not countenance, and on more than one occasion,
at the head of his armed troops, he enforced law and order. Finally, Austria and Prussia declared
war upon France, and Lafayette was sent from Paris and at the head of a French army of twenty-eight
thousand men was stationed at Sedan.

It was inevitable that he and the Jacobins, the leaders in the mad orgy of debauched democracy
that succeeded the initial stages of the revolution, should soon split. For a long time the
Jacobins had seemed to shrink from a contest with him, probably because they hoped to win him
over to their excesses. Finding him inflexible, when at last they controlled the government,
they vowed his destruction, and he was deprived of his command. They proposed that a price
should be set upon his head and that "chaque citoyen pût courir sus"--that is to say, that
any one who pleased might murder him.

Deprived of his command, and with destruction awaiting him in the rear, his only resource was
flight. Even then he hesitated, but reason prevailed and on a dark and rainy night, with a
few companions on horseback, he started for Holland. To get there he had to pass through territory
occupied by the Austrian and Prussian troops. Facing the almost certain chance of falling in
with a superior force, he determined to make a bold front, and went directly to the Austrian
commander at Namur, declaring that he was a French officer attached to constitutional measures
and seeking an asylum in Holland. Instead of being given a passport, he was, when recognized,
detained, given over to a Prussian commander, sent in a cart to Wesel on the Rhine and there
put in a cell in irons. It was then intimated to him that the burden of the situation would
be lightened if he would draw up certain plans to be used against France. The Prussians, finding
that he would not do this, instead of treating him as a prisoner of war threw him into a dungeon
at Magdebourg. His estate at home was confiscated and his wife imprisoned. After a year's imprisonment
at Magdebourg in a dirty and humid vault he was transferred by the Prussians from one dungeon
to another, and at last confined in the Austrian citadel of Olmutz.

The walls of his dungeon at Olmutz were six feet thick and the air was admitted through openings
two feet square secured at each end by massive iron bars. Before these loopholes was situated
a broad ditch, which was filled with water only when it rained; at other times it was a stagnant
marsh continually emitting disease; beyond this were the outer walls of the castle, so that
the slightest breeze could never refresh the inmate. Each cell had two doors, one of iron,
the other of wood nearly two feet thick, and both were covered with bolts, bars, and padlocks.
When the soldiers twice a day brought the prisoner's wretched portion it was carefully examined
to find out if there was any note or communication contained in it. A messy bed of rotten straw
filled with vermin, together with a broken chair and an old worm-eaten table, formed the whole
furniture of his establishment. The cell was from eight to ten paces long and six wide; in
storms the water frequently flowed through the loopholes; when the sun did not shine he remained
almost in darkness during the whole day.

He was a prisoner of war and entitled to be treated as such. But instead he was confined in
a dungeon and was given to believe that he would never again see beyond its four walls, that
he would never receive news of any events or persons, that his name would be unknown in the
citadel, and that in all accounts of him sent to Court he would be designated only by a number.
Even knives and forks were denied him, and he was told that this was done because his situation
was such as naturally to lead to suicide. His sufferings proved almost beyond his strength.
The want of air and decent food, and the loathsome dampness of his dungeon brought him more
than once to the borders of the grave. His frame was wasted by diseases, and on one occasion
he was so reduced that "his hair fell from him entirely by the excess of his sufferings."

Following a bold attempt to escape, the torture of his imprisonment was increased. Irons were
securely fastened around his ankles. To increase his miseries, almost insupportable mental
anguish was added to his physical suffering. He was made to believe that he was only saved
for a public execution, while at the same time he was not permitted to know whether his family
were still alive or had perished under the axe during the Reign of Terror.

A Prussian statesman to whom in 1793 a memorial had been addressed soliciting Lafayette's release
is said to have replied: "Lafayette has too much fanaticism for liberty. He does not conceal
it. All his letters prove it. If he were out of prison he could not remain quiet. I saw him
when he was here and I shall always recollect one of his expressions, which surprised me very
much at the time: 'Do you believe,' said he, 'that I went to America to obtain military reputation?--it
was for liberty I went there. He who loves liberty can only remain quiet after having established
it in his own country.'"

O liberty, hard is thy path! License wearing thy mask at home, and thy champion betrayed to
the dungeon of thy eternal foe!

VII

Out of the chaos rose the dictator. Napoleon's comet was beginning to ascend.

Napoleon Bonaparte in 1797 was commander in Italy of the victorious army of the French Republic,
and as such he demanded of Austria that the French prisoners in the fortress of Olmutz be set
at liberty. Consent was given as to the others, but only after much talk and grudgingly as
to Lafayette. His unconquerable hostility to the reigning autocracies was too well known, and
Austria even attempted to impose the terms that, if freed, Lafayette should be deported to
America under promise never again to put his foot either in Austria or Prussia. But Lafayette
himself would not consent to be freed on these terms, and Napoleon insisted; so, finally, at
the dictation of Napoleon Bonaparte, on September 19, 1797, after more than five years' imprisonment,
Lafayette's fetters were knocked off and he was released. Napoleon afterward often alluded
to the intense hatred of the monarchs and royal cabinets of Europe for the democrat Lafayette.
"I am sufficiently hated," said he one day to Lafayette, "by the princes and their courtiers;
but it is nothing to their hatred for you. I have been so situated as to see it, and I could
not have believed that human hate could go so far."

Perhaps at no time was the spirit of Lafayette put to a greater test than in the years that
followed--the years of the rise of imperial Napoleon, Emperor of the French.

Revenge against his prison keepers, the certainty of high success, the excitement of a great
popular cause, military glory, gratitude to his deliverer, all coördinated to make him follow
the path of conquest, and lead with Napoleon. He could have been one of the great military
heroes of those times. But apparently these temptations rebounded from him as an arrow from
a steel plate. When only a boy of seventeen, his noble relatives had been unable to conceive
his refusing an honorable place in royalty's household. It had been inconceivable to the Prussian
that this Frenchman had not gone to America on a quest solely for military glory. The Jacobin
clubs, first by fair promises and then by the demand for his life blood, had sought to force
him from liberty to license, from real freedom to debauched freedom. But like Sir Galahad,
the Knight of the Holy Grail, he had stood true to his quest, true to his ideal, true to the
inward light that unerringly marked the real from the false, true to genuine democracy in its
fight against autocracy. And now, greater than all these lures and tests, stood before him
Napoleon Bonaparte, his deliverer, the greatest military captain of the world beckoning him
to paths of fame. The sceptre of all that the professional soldier held dear was thrust into
his hands. He could not be false unto himself, and the sceptre was turned aside.

When he found that Napoleon was plotting against the democracy of France, that a new imperial
power was rising in Napoleon's person, he deliberately broke off his relations with the general.
During the days of the French conquests under Napoleon he lived the life of a quiet country
gentleman, interested solely in domestic life, agriculture, and the pursuit of reading and
science. The man who had staked his all in a desperate chance in the war of democracy against
despotic autocracy would not raise his finger in a war of conquest for the aggrandizement of
an emperor, though driven by the demon of revenge, drawn by the ties of gratitude, and enticed
by the lure of glory.

VIII

On March 1, 1815, Napoleon returned from Elba and began the final act in the great drama of
his life. In a last effort to win Lafayette to his side, he sent his brother Joseph Bonaparte
on a special mission to Lafayette with word that the latter's name was placed first upon Napoleon's
list of peers. Joseph returned with a refusal. "Should I ever again appear upon the sea of
public life," Lafayette had replied, "it will only be as a representative of the people."

Waterloo!--and Napoleon disappeared forever from the world drama. Then came back the Bourbons,
first Louis XVIII, followed by Charles X. Step by step, under the Bourbon régime, autocracy
began to regain its grip upon France. The year 1830 opened ominously. The rumblings of 1789
were again heard. The French Chamber of Deputies protested against the growing usurpations
of the crown. The King boldly defied them, dissolved the Chamber, annulled the electoral laws
then in force, reduced the number of deputies nearly one-half, and materially changed the conditions
of suffrage and representation.

Lafayette was at his country estate, La Grange, when the Moniteur with a copy of these decrees
reached him. He immediately set out for Paris. Revolt had already commenced, and war was raging
in the streets of the city. The revolutionists wanted a leader and all eyes turned to Lafayette.
He was called by acclamation to command the National Guard.

He was now seventy-two years of age, but he accepted the call. Immediately he established his
headquarters in Paris and passed the whole night inspecting barriers and preparing for a renewal
of the battle on the morrow. At dawn it began again and the National Guard under Lafayette
drove back the royal troops and carried all before them. On July 29, 1830, the Chamber of Deputies
reassembled, organized a provisional government, and formally invested Lafayette with the powers
of military dictator of France. "Liberty shall triumph," he replied in his letter of acceptance,
"or we will perish together."

Charles X, seeing the hopelessness of the royal cause, sent a deputation to Lafayette to announce
the revocation of the obnoxious decrees and the nomination of a new and liberal ministry. "It
is too late," Lafayette sent word back, "all conciliation is impossible. The royal family has
ceased to reign." Thus ended the dynasty of the elder branch of the Bourbons on the throne
of France. The deposed king was allowed to pass unmolested to another country.

The people who had accomplished the revolution, especially the citizen army, loudly demanded
a republic with Lafayette for its president. Others begged him to mount the throne himself.
But to all these entreaties he turned a deaf ear. He thought not of himself but of France alone.

A constitutional monarchy, under Louis Phillippe, followed. It was successful at first, until
the old, old story of attempted autocratic usurpation was again repeated by the monarch. He
was forcibly ejected, and the Republic of 1848 was formed. But long ere this, moving gently
down the stream of life, the journey had ended, and Lafayette slept with his fathers. Vive
l'ésprit de Lafayette!

IX

Every person has two selves, the shell and the real self beneath. Acts are the evidence of
the real self. Let us hope what is best in the real self is eternal, for thus only does the
world progress.

Lafayette symbolized two great principles of government. First, the right of a people to govern
themselves, as opposed to government of the many by a self-appointed few--in other words, democracy
as opposed to autocracy. Second, a union of the democracies to insure mutual protection and peace.

When only a boy at school, he was told in class one day to describe a perfect courser, and
he sacrificed his hope of obtaining a premium by describing a horse which on perceiving the
whip threw down his master. He adopted on his arms the device, "Cur non?"--"Why not?"

Upon a return visit to America in 1784, speaking to a deputation from the Pennsylvania Legislature,
he said: "Now that the great work is accomplished let us mutually congratulate ourselves on
the federal union which this peace has cemented, and upon which the importance, the power,
and the riches of this beautiful country rest; that union is the bond which will continue to
preserve brotherly love and reciprocal friendship among the citizens of the states. I shall
be happy to receive the command of this Republic at every period of my existence and in whatever
part of the world I may be; my zeal for its prosperity is only equalled by my gratitude and
respect."

The confederation in 1776 of the thirteen separate colonies of the western world was a union
of all the then existing democracies of a hemisphere, to insure mutual protection and peace.
Since then, democracy has been born in the Old World. In its common cause it knows no nationality.
Lafayette is the symbol of its internationalism. In the time of our greatest stress he crossed
the ocean to us, saying: "Now is precisely the moment to serve your cause." To-day democracy
in France is bleeding to death. Throughout Europe, assailed in front by the giant of Prussian
militarism and stabbed in the back by assassins conducting an insidious and treacherous peace
propaganda, it is staggering under the combined attack. The spirit of Lafayette, the democrat,
calls to us across that same ocean. The bugles of the heavens ring out. The days of '76 are
born again. Once more is heard the battle-cry of the Republic. Where his spirit calls, our
armies go. And when the great work is accomplished, we shall cement the union which he began.

X

But is democracy worth preserving? How fares that intangible something which was the inspiration
of this man's living? Democracy, the right of people to govern themselves, as opposed to their
control by a self-appointed few--is it a failure or a success? Has it proved itself worth the
dedication of this soldier spirit?

The French, for themselves, have answered the question at the Battle of the Marne and at Verdun.
But how about America? Has the great American democracy proved a success, as compared with
government by autocracy--for example, as compared with the government of Germany by the Prussian
military autocracy, headed by the House of Hohenzollern?

More than a century has passed since the surrender of Cornwallis. Since then in physical growth
and material success the democracy of the United States has more than fulfilled the highest
hopes. At that time these United States were only a strip along the eastern seaboard, bounded
on the east by the Atlantic Ocean and on the west by an unexplored wilderness; thirteen sparsely
settled states, the settlements widely separated from each other, with a population of less
than four million persons. Now the wilderness is overcome. By the Louisiana Purchase we acquired
the Great Southwest. For a pittance we bought the wastes of Alaska and then found them to be
the gold fields of the world. The Philippines, with an area of one hundred and fifteen thousand
square miles, and the Hawaiian Islands mark the extension of our western boundaries. Cuba is
under our immediate protection. Porto Rico is part of us, and likewise the Danish West Indies.
In Central America we have built the Panama Canal. By the Monroe Doctrine we are the protectors
from foreign interference of all of Central and South America. Our population has grown to
more than one hundred million souls. Our material wealth is the greatest of any single nation
in the world.

Does this constitute success? Look on the other side of the picture. Our form of national government
has been notoriously inefficient--taking Germany as the standard. Our state governments at
their best are mediocre, while at their worst they stand pitifully paralyzed before mob law.
Our unpunished lynchings of coloured people, innocent as well as guilty, make us contemptible
in the eyes of the civilized world. No other government on earth remains silent and helpless
while its citizens assemble as for a holiday and burn a criminal at the stake. Our municipalities
are largely rotten with graft, and the graft is accompanied by its inevitable handmaids, extravagance
and inefficiency. Enormous wealth, in the hands of a few, dwells side by side with extreme
poverty. Our cities are overcrowded, and the country of Whittier, where

    "Shut in from all the world without
    We sat the clean-winged hearth about,"

is handed over to the huts and shanties of immigrants. Capital fights labour and labour fights
capital. Politics are such that most men avoid them. The standard of work is not how well you
can do your job, but how much you can make out of it. Is this democracy a success?

In answer to this, however, does not an inner consciousness in each of us, perhaps the spirit
of Lafayette and perhaps our own, perhaps the whispering of an unseen, great, and infinite
power, tell us that the really relevant question is not whether we have yet achieved success,
but whether a successful democracy is worth striving for? If, however, I should be obliged
to answer the question by "Yes" or "No" I would say, "Yes, it is a success!"

The best route for the development of any man lies along the hard and thorny road of self-development.
In the end, self-development, by dint of hard work and mistakes, produces the best man, provided
he has the courage to "see it through." Nations are merely big collections of individuals.
In the end this self-development produces the best nation. The road is filled with difficulties,
but so are most roads to goals that are worth reaching.

Our national government may have been inefficient in its details, but taken as a whole it has
created a country which for generations has been a haven for the oppressed of the world. How
many hundred thousand Germans have immigrated to America? How many Americans have ever emigrated
to Germany? We have lynchings in the South, but no other country was ever left a more hideous
problem of slavery, and in 1861 when the supreme test came the government rose to it; no one
but a visionary can expect an immediate Utopian readjustment. Our municipalities abound in
graft, but what country before ours ever faced the problem of absorbing annually the enormous
flood of unlettered immigrants that is unceasingly poured upon us by the Old World. The wonder
is not that we have graft, but that we have not more graft. We have great wealth and extreme
poverty, but they are due to unusual economic causes, namely: great national resources on the
one hand, and ceaseless immigration on the other. Our cities are overcrowded and our standards
of work are superficial, but would this be cured by a despotism?

And always we have the hope that goes with liberty, the undying strength that accompanies the
knowledge that you are master of your own soul. A good despot at the head of a military autocracy
may for the time being make the most efficient government in the world; certainly a bad despot
at the head of a military autocracy makes the worst government. But I will never believe that
the total surrender of the individual to the guiding hand of a despotic autocracy makes in
the end for the progress of the whole. History shows it to be untrue; the never-ceasing efforts
of democracy, as endless as the waves of the sea, show that despotic autocracy cannot last;
and the hell let loose upon earth by Prussian autocracy, its modern exponent, clinches the
falsity of its creed for all but the intoxicated or maniacs.

XI

Now has arisen the Menace, the eternal foe of a free people, the Prussian Creed. The following
is a composite statement of Prussianism: "compiled sentence by sentence from the utterances
of Prussians, the Kaiser and his generals, professors, editors, and Nietzsche, part of it said
in cold blood, years before this war, and all of it a declaration of faith now being ratified
by action." It is taken word for word from the eleventh chapter of Owen Wister's remarkable
work "The Pentecost of Calamity,"[A] and is the most concise statement of the Menace that I
have seen.

[A] "The Pentecost of Calamity," by Owen Wister. The Macmillan Company.

"We Hohenzollerns take our crown from God alone. On me the Spirit of God has descended. I regard
my whole ... task as appointed by heaven. Who opposes me I shall crush to pieces. Nothing must
be settled in this world without the intervention ... of ... the German Emperor. He who listens
to public opinion runs a danger of inflicting immense harm on ... the State. When one occupies
certain positions in the world one ought to make dupes rather than friends. Christian morality
cannot be political. Treaties are only a disguise to conceal other political aims. Remember
that the German people are the chosen of God.

"Might is right and ... is decided by war. Every youth who enters a beer-drinking and duelling
club will receive the true direction of his life. War in itself is a good thing. God will see
to it that war always recurs. The efforts directed toward the abolition of war must not only
be termed foolish, but absolutely immoral. The peace of Europe is only a secondary matter for
us. The sight of suffering does one good; the infliction of suffering does one more good. This
war must be conducted as ruthlessly as possible.

"The Belgians should not be shot dead. They should be ... so left as to make impossible all
hope of recovery. The troops are to treat the Belgian civil population with unrelenting severity
and frightfulness. Weak nations have not the same right to live as powerful ... nations. The
world has no longer need of little nationalities. We Germans have little esteem and less respect
... for Holland. We need to enlarge our colonial possessions; such territorial acquisitions
we can only realize at the cost of other states.

"Russia must no longer be our frontier. The Polish press should be annihilated ... likewise
the French and Danish.... The Poles should be allowed ... three privileges: to pay taxes, serve
in the army, and shut their jaws. France must be so completely crushed that she will never
again cross our path. You must remember that we have not come to make war on the French people,
but to bring them the higher Civilization. The French have shown themselves decadent and without
respect for the Divine law. Against England we fight for booty. Our real enemy is England.
We have to ... crush absolutely perfidious Albion ... subdue her to such an extent that her
influence all over the world is broken forever.

"German should replace English as the world language. English, the bastard tongue ... must
be swept into the remotest corners ... until it has returned to its original elements of an
insignificant pirate dialect. The German language acts as a blessing which, coming direct from
the hand of God, sinks into the heart like a precious balm. To us, more than any other nation,
is intrusted the true structure of human existence. Our own country, by employing military
power, has attained a degree of Culture which it could never have reached by peaceful means.

"The civilization of mankind suffers every time a German becomes an American. Let us drop our
miserable attempts to excuse Germany's action. We willed it. Our might shall create a new law
in Europe. It is Germany that strikes. We are morally and intellectually superior beyond all
comparison.... We must ... fight with Russian beasts, English mercenaries, and Belgian fanatics.
We have nothing to apologize for. It is no consequence whatever if all the monuments ever created,
all the pictures ever painted, all the buildings ever erected by the great architects of the
world, be destroyed.... The ugliest stone placed to mark the burial of a German grenadier is
a more glorious monument than all the cathedrals of Europe put together. No respect for the
tombs of Shakespeare, Newton, and Faraday.

"They call us barbarians. What of it?

The German war code, introduction, paragraph three, reads as follows: "A war conducted with
energy cannot be directed merely against the combatants of the enemy state, and the positions
which they occupy, but will in like manner seek to destroy the total intellectual and material
resources of the latter."

XII

We are at war. On April 6, 1917, the democracy of the United States of America formally declared
war against the autocracy of Germany. What are we fighting for?

Two brutes in the shape of men engage in a savage, drunken brawl. Bloody, cursing, dishevelled,
with swollen and distorted features, and screaming their anathemas of drunken hate, they fight
with the ferocity of beasts. Beasts they are.

A bully, a degenerate, a thug of the city, a brigand of the country, a horse thief of the western
plains, attacks a weaker and unprepared victim. A man with red blood in his veins sees the
assault, and attacks the attacker with strength enough to save the victim, arrest the disturber
of the peace, and prevent a repetition of the offense. He has been engaged in a fight, but
he is not a beast.

The spirit of Lafayette brought him to America to fight for democracy; he was a hard fighter
but he was not a beast. And now, against that calculating and brutal power which with the treachery
of a tiger of the jungle and all the devilish ingenuity of the highest Kultur has assaulted
the peace of the world, the armies of America are led by the spirit of Lafayette.

For years the Prussian military autocracy has been preparing for the leap upon its victim.
The power to declare war has been kept solely and exclusively in the hands of the military
autocracy. It is responsible to no one. The great mass of people must do as they are commanded;
obeying, not laws made by themselves acting through their duly-elected representatives, but
orders promulgated by a self-appointed few, the military autocracy of Prussia. Woe to the unfortunate
victim who refuses to obey! With cold-blooded deliberation this military autocracy which controls
the German people has for years been preparing its huge fighting machine. When the time to
strike came, when the neighbouring countries were least prepared to resist, Germany was deluged
with the lie that the German nation was attacked, the scrap of paper otherwise called a treaty
was torn up, and the tiger sprang. The world knows the result.

We enter the war for two motives, one to preserve the democracies of Europe, the other for
our own preservation. The sinking of our ships by submarines was merely the immediate cause,
the match that lit the fire, just as the firing on Fort Sumter was the proximate but not the
real cause of our Civil War. TO ROBERT RIDDEL, ESQ.

OF GLENRIDDEL

[These memoranda throw much light on the early days of Burns, and
on the history of his mind and compositions.

Robert
Riddel, of the Friars-Carse, to whom these fragments were sent, was
a good man as well as a distinguished antiquary.]

MY DEAR SIR,

On
rummaging over some old papers I lighted on a MS. of my early years,
in which I had determined to write myself out; as I was placed by
fortune among a class of men to whom my ideas would have been nonsense.

I had meant that the book should have lain by me, in the fond hope
that some time or other, even after I was no more, my thoughts would
fall into the hands of somebody capable of appreciating their value.

It sets off thus:--

"OBSERVATIONS, HINTS, SONGS, SCRAPS OF POETRY, &c., by ROBERT BURNESS:
a man who had little art in making money, and still less in keeping
it; but was, however, a man of some sense, a great deal of honesty,
and unbounded good-will to every creature, rational and irrational.--As
he was but little indebted to scholastic education, and bred at a
plough-tail, his performances must be strongly tinctured with his
unpolished, rustic way of life; but as I believe they are really his
own, it may be some entertainment to a curious observer of human nature
to see how a ploughman thinks, and feels, under the pressure of love,
ambition, anxiety, grief, with the like cares and passions, which,
however diversified by the modes and manners of life, operate pretty
much alike, I believe, on all the species."

"There are numbers in the world who do not want sense to make a figure,
so much as an opinion of their own abilities to put them upon recording
their observations, and allowing them the same importance which they do
to those which appear in print."--SHENSTONE.

* * * * *

April, 1783.

Notwithstanding all that has been said against love, respecting the folly and weakness it lends a young
inexperienced mind into; still I think it in a great measure deserves the highest encomiums that have
been passed upon it.

If anything on earth deserves the name of rapture or transport, it
is the feelings of green eighteen in the company of the mistress of
his heart, when she repays him with an equal return of affection.

* * * * *

August.

There is certainly some connexion between love and music, and poetry;
and therefore, I have always thought it a fine touch of nature, that
passage in a modern love-composition:

"As towards her cot she jogged
along, Her name was frequent in his song."

The performance is indeed, very puerile and silly; but I am always
pleased with it, as it recalls to my mind those happy days when my
heart was yet honest, and my tongue was sincere.

The subject of it was a young girl who really deserved all the praises I have bestowed on her.
I not only had this opinion of her then--but I actually think so still,
now that the spell is long since broken, and the enchantment at an
end.

O once I lov'd a bonnie lass.[145]

Lest my works should be thought below criticism: or meet with a critic, who, perhaps, will not look
on them with so candid and favourable an eye, I am determined to criticise them myself.

The first distich of the first stanza is quite too much in the flimsy
strain of our ordinary street ballads: and, on the other hand, the
second distich is too much in the other extreme.

The expression is a little awkward, and the sentiment too serious. Stanza the second I am well
pleased with; and I think it conveys a fine idea of that amiable
part of the sex--the agreeables; or what in our Scotch dialect we
call a sweet sonsie lass.

The
third stanza has a little of the flimsy turn in it; and the third line has rather too serious a
cast. The fourth stanza is a very indifferent one; the first line,
is, indeed, all in the strain of the second stanza, but the rest
is most expletive.

The thoughts in the fifth stanza come finely up to my favourite idea--a
sweet sonsie lass: the last line, however, halts a little.

The same sentiments are kept up with equal spirit and tenderness in the sixth stanza, but the second
and fourth lines ending with short syllables hurt the whole.
s a very indifferent one; the first line,
is, indeed, all in the strain of the second stanza, but the rest
is most expletive.

The thoughts in the fifth stanza come finely up to my favourite idea--a
sweet sonsie lass: the last line, however, halts a little.

The same sentiments are kept up with equal spirit and tenderness in the sixth stanza, but the second
and fourth lines ending with short syllables hurt the whole.


In the first place, the autocratic power that now puts terror into the heart of the world must
be broken beyond repair. The Hohenzollerns and the rest of the military caste which now controls
Germany must be politically exterminated. No pretended or half-way internal political reforms,
leaving a road for their return to power, will be sufficient. Annihilate the Menace. The cancer
must be cut out, with no roots left in the body politic to spread its hideous disease again.
Make an effective job of it once for all. We want no chance, under the cloak of peace, for
the return of this monster.

"The time has come to conquer or submit," wrote President Wilson shortly after our declaration
of war. It is true. Can any one doubt what would have happened to the United States of America
if Prussian autocracy had dictated terms of peace to vanquished Allies and as part of those
terms had taken over the allied fleet and obtained territory in Canada? Or can any one doubt
what will now happen to all the democracies if the present Pan-Germany, now existing by means
of Prussian victories in this war, is during the next ten years consolidated, organized, Prussianized--and
then, a fighting machine twice as powerful as the machine of 1914, hurled against the democracies?
With an army of seven or eight million men trained to the hour, with equipped reserves of ten
or twelve million more, with a complete network of military railroads capable of concentrating
the units of this engine of destruction wherever military strategy shall designate, and with
aeroplanes and transatlantic submarines in proportion, what chance will the democracies have?

In the second place, it ought to be very clear that future power and prosperity on the part
of the plain people of Germany will be no bar to securing our rights, provided, however, that
this power and prosperity is not owned and controlled by Prussian autocracy so that it can
again be forced into a huge fighting machine to put the rest of the world in terror. The spirit
of Lafayette, although its fight against such masters is eternal, will not lead in a war of
conquest or annihilation against the German people.

"We have no quarrel with the German people," said the President of the United States in his
message of April 2, 1917. It was a war determined upon by the same Menace that thrust the democrat
Lafayette into a dungeon, and which so hated democracy that when compelled to release him it
attempted to impose terms that he should be deported to America, never again to place foot
on Prussian or Austrian soil.

The corollary of this is that the best security for the rights of democracy is the establishment
of a republic in Germany. A real republic, not a sham one. This is the one definite, concrete
fact which would make the world safer for its peoples.

When will the German people see the light? When will there be a government of the people of
Germany, for the people, and by the people? The shades of her dead, led to the slaughter by
a merciless and heartless autocracy in a needless war, cry out for it. What say you, you men
of Germany? Among you are men whose souls are brave and strong and true, an unnumbered host.
How long, slaves, will you bend your backs to the lash of your military masters? They lied
to you and made you believe the Fatherland was attacked, and led you, dupes, into a war of
conquest. Your modern Pilate, in his blasphemous pride, with the name of God upon his lips
and the blood of innocents upon his hands, is now crucifying Freedom upon his cross of iron.
But the day of the resurrection will come; and how will your record stand then? Awake, ye free
of Germany! When shall you come into your own?

Every hour that the coming of such a republic is shortened means just so much less agony for
the peoples of the world. There is no better pledge for the safety of democracy.

XV

What else? The union. The final act in the world-wide drama of democracy. The union of the
democracies of the world to insure mutual protection and peace. I mean a union for this purpose
of all those governments where the people, by their representatives, control. The union on
two hemispheres of what the spirit of Lafayette foresaw, symbolized, and battled for on both.

The union ought to include the Austrian and German people themselves. It can never, however,
include the Prussian military autocracy or any other military autocracy.

The union must be a union to keep the future safe against war, a league to compel every nation
after the close of the present war to settle any claim it may have against its neighbour in
the same way that individuals settle their disputes--by rules of right and reason instead of
by the law of might.

XVI

"Cur non?"--"Why not?" The union of the democracies will be the culmination of the world-wide
drama begun by the spirit of Lafayette. Since then, as sure and certain as the evolution of
time itself, the evolution of the law has been toward such a union.

Year has followed year and century has followed century, and through it all, surely, slowly,
often torn and twisted out of shape but always growing, evolving, moving onward, the law has
followed the safe appeal of truth to time, toward this great goal. One jot or one tittle shall
in no wise pass from it till all be fulfilled. It is the spirit of Lafayette that leads. It
was he who saw "the glory of the coming of the Lord." He saw fulfilled in fact the union of
the separate democracies on one hemisphere; his spirit sees the vision of their union on two.

Gaze for a moment on what this soldier spirit has looked down upon in the past and on the vision
of what it sees for the future.

Centuries ago individual man settled all his disputes with individual man by fighting. It was
the primitive method. There was no law: might made right. The spirit saw savage primeval force,
unconquered, untaught, powerful and brutal in the wanton exercise of its strength.

Then, under the safe appeal of truth to time, there gradually evolved, as between man and man,
the method of voluntary submission to a judicial tribunal. Twisted and gnarled was this growth
however, for even under Anglo-Saxon law the right of trial by battle was jealously guarded,
and lasted for many years. A noble knight charged with an offense could always demand trial
by battle; and if he succeeded in running through the body or otherwise disabling the man who
made the accusation, he thereby established his own innocence and was acquitted by the court.
This also the spirit saw.

Then gradually force was conquered, tamed, and used; and there evolved the modern court backed
by the harnessed force of the community--backed by force sufficient to compel individual man
to settle his disputes in court instead of by fighting, and if he refused and chose to fight,
sufficient to compel him to desist and to punish him for his attempt. Force, a human Niagara,
wild from the beginning, now controlled and directed by a higher law. Imagine the modern courts
of our cities and states without the backing of organized force--courts and judges and rules
of judicial procedure with no force to support them, and each individual in the community vested
with the option in case of a dispute with a neighbour to settle that dispute by attacking the
neighbour! We should have anarchy within six months.

What about nations? What has the spirit seen there? For nations are merely large collections
of individuals. The same law of evolution governs both.

The first and primitive method of settling disputes between nations, and for a long time the
only one, was war; and this the spirit beheld. Then gradually evolved the method of voluntary
submission to a judicial tribunal such as the tribunal now existing at The Hague, each nation
retaining, however, its right of trial by battle. The next method, the vision of the future,
the new internationalism of which the living Lafayette was the symbol, is the harnessing of
the united force of the peoples of the world, the union of the democracies to enforce the peace
of the world. It is a vision of the union to form a modern court backed by force trained to
obey the higher law, backed by force sufficient to compel nations to settle their disputes
in court instead of by fighting. It is a vision of the war ogre, who has for centuries ravaged
the world, at last shackled and bound; of the monster who with bloody claws and fangs has torn,
ripped, and murdered his victims by the million, at last overcome; a vision of this evil brute
of war conquered, and of primeval force trained, civilized, and forging the chains to hold
this devil of hell.

XVII

Did that Indian warrior who met Lafayette in the American wilderness speak more wisely than
he knew? Were the footsteps of this soldier of France directed by the Great Spirit? Who can tell!

This must be the last war. We shall not hand down to our children this heritage of calamity.
Our Revolutionary War settled for all time the independence of these United States of America.
The Civil War settled for all time the question of slavery in this hemisphere. This war must
and shall settle for all time the question of military autocratic domination of the world.
"The time has come to conquer or submit."

And if after we have checked and curbed this natural foe to liberty there shall arise a concert
of the powers of the world, a world-wide union to insure and enforce future peace, a union
based not merely on treaty obligations which may be avoided, or on a contract which may be
broken, but on a wide understanding and realization that organized democracy must in the future
act concertedly as the police of the world--then by just so much as we make posterity safe,
the awful sacrifice will not have been made in vain.

We build for posterity. "Cur non?"--"Why not?" It is the spirit of Lafayette that calls. And
with the call we hear from the heavens the chant of a mighty chorus, singing not the hymn of
hate but the pæan of peace on earth, good-will toward men.

Those who do not know us gibe at us and throw our sins in our teeth. But this mightiest of
democracies is at last awakening, is casting out the evil genii of opulence, is girding on
its sword for the great work. Soldier of freedom, thou camest to us in the time of our greatest
need. "Now," thou saidst, "is precisely the moment to serve your cause." Symbol of the united
democracies of the world, symbol of a union which will make the earth safe for its peoples,
symbol of a union of peace, we are led by thy spirit. We fight for democracy; we build for
posterity.

        [Device]
 THE COUNTRY LIFE PRESS
   GARDEN CITY, N. Y.

    Minor typographical errors have been corrected without note. Archaic
    and variant spellings remain as printed.

