                   [Footnote 277: Within a year of the Prince's
                   accession to the throne, the Pell Rolls, January
                   27, 1414, record the payment of 826l. 13s.
                   4d. to the Bishop of Winchester, lent to the King
                   when he was Prince of Wales.]

Though these causes are of themselves more than enough to account for the depressed state of
Henry of Monmouth's finances; yet there was another drain, the pecuniary difficulties of his
father, which, though hitherto unnoticed, must not be suppressed in these Memoirs.       (p.
282) It is not necessary more than to refer to the causes of the pecuniary difficulties of
Henry IV; as the public and authentic documents of his reign suggest a suspicion of want of
economy in his more domestic expenditure, and leave no doubt as to the extent to which he endeavoured
to meet his increasing wants by loans from spiritual and municipal bodies, as well as from
individuals. Among others, his son Henry's name occurs, not once or twice, but repeatedly.
Whilst some loans, with reference to the then value of money, must be considered large; others
cannot fail to excite surprise from the smallness of their amount.[278]

                   [Footnote 278: Pell Rolls, 9 Hen. IV. 17th July,
                   &c.]

       *       *       *       *       *

A charge, however, more vitally affecting Henry's character than any other by which it has
ever been assailed, requires now a patient and thorough investigation. The groundwork, indeed,
upon which the accusation is built, is of great antiquity, though the superstructure is of
very recent date. Were it sufficient for a biographer, who would deal uprightly, merely to
contradict the evidence by demonstrating its inconsistency with indisputable facts, the business
of refutation in this instance would be brief, as the accusation breaks down in every particular,
from whatever point of view we may examine it. But the province of these Memoirs must not be
so confined. To establish the truth in these points satisfactorily, as well as to place clearly
(p. 283) before the mind the total inadequacy of the evidence to substantiate the charge, will
require a more full and detailed examination of the value of the Manuscript on which the charge
is made to rest, than could be conveniently introduced into the body of this narrative. The
whole is therefore reserved for the Appendix; and to a careful, dispassionate weighing of the
arguments there adduced, the reader is earnestly invited.

But the Author, as he has above intimated, does not think his duty would be performed were
he merely to prove that the charge against Henry is altogether untenable upon the evidence
adduced; though that is all which the accusation so unsparingly now in these late years brought
against him requires or deserves. The very allusion to such an offence as undutiful, unfilial
conduct in one whose life is otherwise an example of obedience, respect, and affection towards
his father, requires the biographer to take up the province of inquisitor, and ascertain what
ground there may be, independently of that inadequate evidence alleged by others, for believing
Henry to have once at least, and for a time, forgotten the duties of a son; or what proceedings,
not involving his guilt, might have given rise to the unfounded rumour, and of what satisfactory
explanation they may admit.

The charge is this: That, in the parliament held in November 1411, Prince Henry desired of
his father the resignation of his crown, on the plea that the malady under which the King was
suffering        (p. 284) would not allow him to rule any longer for the honour and welfare
of the kingdom. On the King's firm and peremptory refusal, the Prince, greatly offended, withdrew
from the court, and formed an overwhelming party of his own among the nobility and gentry of
the land, "associating them to his dominion in homage and pay." Such is the statement made
(not indeed in the form of an accusation, but merely as one of the occurrences of the year,)
in the manuscript above referred to. The modern comment upon this text would probably never
have been made, if the writer had given more time and patient investigation to the subject;
and now, were such a suppression compatible with the thorough sifting of Henry's character
and conduct, the quotation of it might well have been spared in these pages. A few words, however,
on that comment, and recently renewed charge, seem indispensable. "The King's subsequent death
(such are the words of the modern historian) prevented the final explosion of this unfilial
conduct, which, as thus stated, deserves the denomination of an unnatural rebellion; and shows
that the dissolute companion of Falstaff was not the gay and thoughtless youth which his dramatic
representation exhibits to us, but that, amid his vicious gaieties, he could cherish feelings
which too much resemble the unprincipled ambition of a Catilinarian temper."[279]

                   [Footnote 279: Turner's History.]

These are hard words; and, if deserved, must condemn Henry of Monmouth. That they are not deserved;
that he was not guilty of this offence (p. 285) against God and his father; that the page which
records it condemns itself, and is contradictory to our undisputed public records; that the
manuscript which contains the charge carries with it no authority whatever; and that the inference
which has lately been fastened upon the original report is altogether inconsistent with the
acknowledged facts of the case, are points which the Author believes he has established beyond
further controversy in the Appendix; and to that dissertation he again with confidence refers
the reader. But every reader whose verdict is worth receiving, will agree that our abhorrence
of a crime should only increase our care and circumspection that no innocent person stand charged
with it. If Henry were guilty, his character must remain branded with an indelible stain, in
the estimation of every parent and every child, incomparably more disgraceful than those "vicious
gaieties" with which poets and historiographers have delighted to stamp his memory.--At a time
when disease was paralysing all a father's powers of body and mind, and hurrying him prematurely
to the grave, that a first-born son, instead of devoting himself, and all his heart, and all
his faculties, to his parent; strengthening his feeble hands, supporting his faltering steps,
guiding his erring counsels, bearing his heavy burden, protecting him from the machinations
of the malicious and designing, cheering his drooping spirits, making (as far as in him lay)
his   (p. 286) last days on earth days of peace, and comfort, and calm preparation for the
change to which he was hastening;--instead of this, that a son, who had always professed respect
and affection for his father, should thrust the most painful thorn of all into the side of
a sinking, broken down, dying man, is so abhorrent from every feeling, not only of a truly
noble and generous spirit, but of mere ordinary humanity,--is so utterly "unprincipled," "unfilial,"
and "unnatural,"--that though in such a case we might hope, after a life of sincere Christian
penitence, the stain might have been removed from his conscience; yet, in the estimation of
the wise and good, he could never have obtained the name of "the most excellent and most gracious
flower of Christian chivalry."

Although for the real merits of the question, as far as relates to the manuscript, we refer
to the argument in the Appendix; and although, if the foundation of original documents be withdrawn,
it matters little to the investigator of the truth what superstructure modern writers have
hastily run up; yet such a positive assertion as that "the King's subsequent death prevented
the final explosion of this unfilial conduct and unnatural rebellion" of the Prince, who cherished
"feelings resembling the unprincipled ambition of a Catilinarian temper," does seem to call
for a few words before we proceed with the narrative. It is difficult to say whether the confused
views of the manuscript, or of its modern commentator, be the greater. The      (p. 287) manuscript,
(to mention here only one specimen of its confusion,) in the very page which contains the accusing
passage, represents the expedition to France in the summer of 1411; the battle of St. Cloud,
which was fought November 10, of the same year; the expedition under the Duke of Clarence,
which was undertaken after Midsummer 1412; and the return of the Duke and his forces to England,
which was not till the spring of 1413, as having all taken place in the thirteenth year of
Henry IV. And the commentator who tells us that the King's death prevented the final explosion
of Henry's unfilial conduct, by confounding (as the manuscript had also done) the parliament
in November 1411, with the parliament in February 1413, has entirely overlooked the facts which
give a direct contradiction to his statement. The King's death did not occur till March 1413,
more than a year and a quarter after the parliament ended in which the Prince is said to have
been guilty of this act. The session of that parliament began on the 3rd of November, and broke
up on the 20th of December; and the King, nearly half a year after its dissolution, declares
his fixed[280] purpose, in order to avoid the spilling of human blood, to go in his own   
(p. 288) person to the Duchy of Guienne, and vindicate his rights with all possible speed."[281]
Surely the web of his father's life left Henry no lack of time and opportunity for the execution
of any measures which the most reckless ambition could devise, or the most "Catilinarian" temper
sanction. But, leaving this ill-advised statement without further observation, it remains for
us to proceed with our narrative, entirely free from any apprehensions or misgivings that our
researches and reflections may tend only to elucidate the character of one who, in the midst
of splendid sins, would sacrifice his own father to unbounded, reckless ambition, and unprincipled
self-aggrandizement.

                   [Footnote 280: This resolution of the King is
                   embodied in his letter to the Burgomasters of
                   Ghent, &c. dated May 16, 1412; in which he tells
                   them that the Dukes of Berry, Orleans, and Bourbon
                   had offered to surrender to him such lands of his
                   as they held in the Duchy of Guienne, and to assist
                   him in recovering the remainder. He prays the
                   Burgomasters not to impede him in his designs.]

                   [Footnote 281: On the 18th of April 1412, a warrant
                   was issued to press sailors for the King's intended
                   voyage.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Henry of Monmouth had now for a long time been virtually in possession of the royal authority.
He was not only President of the Council, but his name is united with the King's when both
are present; and everything seems to have proceeded smoothly, with the best feelings of mutual
confidence and kindness between himself, his father, and his brothers. Whether the King's own
inclination, uninfluenced by the representations of his parliament, would have led him to put
the reins of government into his son's hand, or whether he was induced by the complaints  
(p. 289) and urgent suggestions of the council (of which many broad and deep vestiges remain
on record) to transfer the executive and legislative functions of the royal prerogative to
a son in whom the people had entire confidence, may admit of much doubt. Probably both causes,
his own increasing infirmities, and his people's dissatisfaction at the mismanagement of the
court, expressed in no covert language, co-operated in producing that result. Hardyng (as he
first wrote on this subject) would lead us to adopt the former view:

  "The King fell sick then, each day more and more;
   Wherefore the Prince he made (as it was seen)
   Chief of Council, to ease him of his sore;
   Who to the Duke of Burgoyne sent, I ween;"

whilst the petitions presented to him, and some subsequent events which must hereafter be noticed,
make us suspect that the behaviour of the Commons might have hastened his resolution.

At the close of the year, (from recounting the transactions of which this serious charge against
Henry's character induced us to digress,) the parliament met in the first week in November.
It was to have been opened on the morrow of All Souls, (November 3, 1411,) but the peers and
commoners were so tardy in their arrival, that the King postponed his meeting the parliament
till the next day. In those times, the monarch seems to have been in the habit of attending
the           (p. 290) parliamentary deliberations, and receiving the petitions, and taking
part generally in the proceedings in person. Through this session Henry IV. was repeatedly
present; and the Prince alone, of all his sons, appears to have attended also. Towards the
close of this parliament, (the very parliament in which the alleged unfilial conduct of the
Prince is represented to have occurred,) proceedings are recorded, which, though referred to
in the Appendix for the sake of the argument, seem to require notice here also in the way of
narration. This the King remembered well, and   (p. 291) thanked them most graciously. The
question unavoidably forces itself upon the mind of every one.--Could such a transaction as
that, by which the fair fame of the Prince is attempted to be destroyed for ever, have taken
place in this parliament? It may be deemed superfluous to add, that, though the records of
this parliament are very full and minute, not the most distant allusion occurs to any such
conduct of the Prince.

                   [Footnote 282: Sir Robert Cotton, in his
                   Abridgement of the Rolls of Parliament, seems to
                   think (though without assigning any reason) that
                   the "thanks were for well employing the treasure
                   granted in the last parliament."]

But whilst, as we have seen, there had arisen much discontent      (p. 292) among the people
with regard to the royal expenditure and the government of the King's household, the King in
his turn had entertained feelings of dissatisfaction towards his parliament; in consequence,
no doubt, of the plain and unreserved manner in which they had given utterance to their sentiments.
When two parties are thus on the eve of a rupture, there never are wanting spirits of a temper
(from the mere love of evil, or in the hope of benefiting themselves,) to foment the rising
discord, and fan the smoking fuel into a flame. Such was the case in this instance, and such
(as we shall soon see) was the case also in a course of proceedings far more closely united
with the immediate subject of these Memoirs. On the same day, the last of the parliament, the
Lords and Commons, addressing the King by petition, express their grief at the circulation
of a report that he was offended on account of some matters done in this and the last parliament;
and they pray him "to declare that he considers each and every of those in the estates of parliament
to be loyal and faithful subjects," which petition the King of his especial grace in full parliament
granted. This submission on the part of the parliament, and its gracious acceptance by the
King, seem to have allayed, at least for a time, all hostile feeling between them.

The prayer of the parliament to the King, that he would express his own and the nation's thanks
to the Prince and the other members of his council, has been thought to imply some suspicion
on their part    (p. 293) that the royal favour was withdrawn from the Prince, that the King
was jealous of his influence, and was therefore backward in publicly acknowledging his obligations
to his son. Be this as it may, two points seem to press themselves on our notice here:--first,
that up to the May of the following year, 1412, no appearance is discoverable of any coolness
or alienation of regard and confidence between the Prince and the King;--the second point is,
that it is scarcely possible to read the disjointed records of the intervening months between
the spring of that year and the next winter, without a strong suspicion suggesting itself,
that the cordial harmony with which the royal father and his son had lived was unhappily interrupted
for a time, and that misunderstandings and jealousies had been fostered to separate them. The
subject is one of lively interest, and, though involved in much mystery, must not be disposed
of without investigation; and, whilst we claim at the hands of others to "set down nought in
malice," we must "nothing extenuate," nor allow any apprehension of consequences to suppress
or soften the very truth. The Author feels himself bound to state not only the mere details
of facts from which inferences might be drawn, but to offer unreservedly his own opinion, formed
upon a patient research, and an honest weighing of whatever evidence he may have found. The
results of his inquiries, after    (p. 294) looking at the point in all the bearings in which
his own reflections or the suggestions of others have placed it, is this:

