Secondly, The tendency of this act is not less injurious to the colonists with regard to the
few articles of export which they are enabled to produce or collect for the British market.
These indeed are only three in number, wool, hides, and seal skins, and are at present very
inconsiderable in quantity; but the two former articles must necessarily increase every year,
and will at length become of great extent and importance. The probable amount of the colonial
exports has been already rated at about £28,000, out of which I consider that not more than
£15,000 worth is conveyed to this country. The remainder consists of sandal wood, beche la
mer, etc. exported principally to China. It may therefore be perceived that the whole of the
annual exports of this colony would not suffice for half the freight of a single vessel of
the size regulated by the act in question. It happens, in consequence, that the different articles
of export which the colonists collect, frequently accumulate in their stores for a year and
a half, before it becomes worth the while of the captain of any of the vessels which frequent
the colony, to give them ship-room; and even then they do it as a matter of favour, not forgetting,
however, to extort an exorbitant return for their kindness and condescension. The owners, indeed,
of these vessels are so well aware of the inability of the colony to furnish them with cargoes
on freight, that they generally manage before their departure, to contract for freights from
some of the ports in India; a precaution which increases still more perceptibly the difficulty
which the colonists experience in sending their produce to market. It must, therefore, be evident
that they suffer a two-fold injury from this act, both as it prevents a regular supply of the
colonial markets with British manufactures, and as it impedes the conveyance of their exports
to this country. It is to be hoped, then, that this unnecessary and oppressive provision of
the act will be revised, and that vessels of any burden will be suffered to trade between this
country and the colony, until its increased growth and maturity shall have rendered the revision
of obsolete efficacy.

The last disability of serious detriment to the colonists, is that their vessels cannot navigate
the seas within the limits of the East India Company's charter. I say cannot; because, although
since the late renewal of their charter vessels built in this colony are, I should apprehend,
entitled to all the privileges of other British built vessels, so long as they are navigated
according to law, it has not yet attained sufficient strength to be enabled to build vessels
of the burden of three hundred and fifty tons; and if it even possessed this ability, such
vessels could only convey the produce of the countries in the Eastern seas, to which the free
trade has lately been opened, to certain ports in the united kingdom. The colonists, therefore,
are virtually precluded from trading in their own vessels within these limits; a restriction
highly injurious to them, and of no benefit whatever to the company. But "Blessed be the Lord,"
whispered Hyacinthe, clasping his slow hands, "for He hath visited and redeemed His people. But
who will believe?"

Then the sun of Christ's day rose gloriously, and the little sparrow came from his nest among the
shavings and shook his wings to the light.

[*] Reprinted by permission
of the publishers of "Everyland."

THE SHEPHERD WHO DIDN'T GO[*]

By
Jay T. Stocking

You have all heard of the shepherds who went to Bethlehem,
but I do not believe any of you have heard of the shepherd who didn't
go. By the 57th Geo. 3. c. 95. this settlement was expressly
included, for all the purposes of the act, within the limits of the East India Company's charter.
The same reasons that sufficed for granting this privilege in the one instance, are at least
equally conclusive in the other; and it is to be hoped, that the legislature will soon release
the colony of New South Wales also from so grievous and unnecessary a restraint. Indeed no
new act for this purpose is necessary; for the 57th Geo. It may, therefore, be perceived that
the disability in question might be removed by a simple Order in Council. Whenever his Majesty's
government shall have freed the colonists from this useless and cruel prohibition, the following
branches of commerce would then be opened to them: First, they would be enabled to transport
in their own vessels their coals, timber, spars, flour, meat, etc. to the Cape of Good Hope,
the Isle of France, Calcutta, and many other places in the Indian seas, in all of which markets
more or less extensive exist for these and various other productions which the colony might
furnish; Secondly, they would be enabled to carry directly to Canton the sandal wood, beche
la mer, dried seal skins, and in fact all the numerous productions which the surrounding seas
and islands afford for the China market, and return freighted with cargoes of tea, silks, nankeens,
etc. all of which commodities are in great demand in the colony, and are at present altogether
furnished by East India or American merchants, to the great detriment and dissatisfaction of
the colonial. And, lastly, they would be enabled in a short time, from the great increase of
capital which these important privileges would of themselves occasion, as well as attract from
other countries to open the fur trade with the north-west coast of America, and dispose of
the cargoes procured in China; a trade which has hitherto been** exclusively carried on by
the Americans and Russians, although the colonists possess a local superiority for the prosecution
of this valuable branch of commerce, which would ensure them at least a successful competition
with the subjects of those two nations.

[* Cap. 17.]

[** Many attempts have been made by the legislature to encourage British subjects to carry
on this commerce from the ports of the united kingdom, but they have in a great measure failed
in this object: see Convention with the King of Spain, 33 Geo, 3. c. 52. Indeed, during the
period of the Company's exclusive trade with China, it can only be successfully undertaken
by persons residing within the limits of their charter.]

Such are the principal alterations in the policy of this colony which appear most essential
to its progress and welfare. All these indeed, and many other privileges, which, though of
only secondary consideration, would tend like a constant concurrence of small rivulets to swell
and enlarge the stream of colonial prosperity, would be the natural consequences of a free
representative government. If I have, therefore, gradually ascended from effect to cause, after
the manner of experimental philosophy, I have chosen this mode of elucidation, not because
it was the only one which offered for the illustration of my subject, but because I consider
the inferences to be drawn from it more satisfactory than those to which the opposite mode
of reasoning (that of descending from generals to particulars) conducts; because it would be
as easy that the abolition of the various grievances which have been enumerated should be coeval
with the creation of the free constitution, by which such abolition would be eventually accomplished;
and lastly, because the additional tedious delay which would otherwise intervene between the
establishment of a colonial legislature, the representation of grievances by which it would
be followed, and their consequent removal,--a process that would occupy two years, might be
thus avoided; or in other words, the same period of unnecessary endurance and misery spared
to the ill fated inhabitants of this colony. In recommending, however, that the government
of this country should authorize the immediate adoption of the measures which I have proposed,
I do not mean to imply that such authorization alone would be productive of the important results
in contemplation. However extensively beneficial in their present and remote effects the privileges
thus conferred might prove, they would nevertheless be unsatisfactory and incomplete, so long
as they were unaccompanied with a government competent and willing to watch over and secure
their continuance. While it should be in the power of any individual to suspend or annul them,
what guarantee, in fact, would exist for their permanence and durability? What solid basis
on which the capital and industry, which they might be calculated to elicit, could repose in
security?

The confidence, indeed, which an impartial governor might inspire, would most probably, as
often as the colony might be blessed with a chief of this description, give a momentary impulse
to the activity of the colonists, and create a temporary prosperity among them; but the shortness
of his administration will always interrupt the completion of his projects, and the caprice,
imbecillity, or injustice of some one or other of his successors, like the blast of the sirocco,
wither up the tender shoots of prosperity, which a consistent and protecting government would
have nurtured and brought to maturity. The experience of the past has sufficiently evinced
the little dependence which is to be placed on the degree of countenance and protection which
the system of one governor, however beneficial the prosecution of it might prove, is likely
to meet with from his successor. It is, indeed, in the nature of man, to prefer his own projects
to those of any other: there is a degree of pleasure in striking off from the beaten path,
and rambling in the untrodden wilds of speculation and experiment, which is alone sufficient,
without the help of bad motives, to account for the diversity of policy, by which the administrations
of the various governors have been contra-distinguished. This inherent principle of our nature,
so averse to the realization of every beneficial design, which is not capable of immediate
development, ought evidently to be counteracted and not encouraged, as it is at present, to
the utmost point to which an uncontrolled and ridiculous caprice may choose to indulge it.
The existing system of government is, in fact, a woof of inconsistency, from which no great
harmonious tissue can proceed. But when Don Quixote felt no discord in the air, he betook himself
to the presence of Dorothea, knelt before her, and told her how willing and anxious he was to
serve her and conquer her giant. And he requested that they make ready to leave. Her reply
was simple and direct, for she told him that his will was hers. So Don Quixote ordered his squire
to saddle Rocinante and his own donkey; but Sancho only shook his head in sorry fashion.

"Master," he said, "there is more mischief in the village than one hears of."

Though it was merely with her husband, Don Fernando, that she had, as Sancho said, rubbed noses,
the crimson in her royal blood came to the surface, and her face turned as red as a beet.
 Scarcely, therefore,
will this gentleman have quitted the colony, before the whole of the superstructure which he
had been rearing will have been pulled down, and another of a different description commenced
in its stead. Such has almost invariably been, and such will continue to be the conduct of
the actual government; nothing judicious or permanent can ever be expected to proceed from
it. How then, it may be asked, can prosperity be expected to flow from sources so precarious
and inconstant? Are they calculated to supply that regular equal stream of security and confidence
which has been found essential to the progress of improvement? But were the existing system
of government essentially conservative in its nature, instead of being virtually destructive,
it would still prove inadequate and inefficient. The circumstances and wants of this colony
will vary every year, and consequently require either such partial modifications or entire
alterations of policy as may be suited to each progressive stage of advancement. Its government,
therefore, ought to be so constituted, as not only to possess the power of revising old laws,
but also of framing new ones. It ought, in fact, to involve in itself a creative as well as
a conservative faculty; a faculty which might enable it to accommodate its measures to every
change of situation, and provide an instant remedy for every unforeseen and prejudicial contingency.
Nothing short of this will suffice to inspire that confidence which alone can be productive
of permanent prosperity. The government of an individual, however respectable he may be, will
always engender distrust and cramp exertion. Man is distinguished from the rest of the creation
by his circumspection and providence. There must exist a moral probability of reaping before
he will venture to sow. This cautious calculating disposition too, is most predominant in those
who are in the most easy circumstances: where the liability to incur loss is greatest, the
spirit of enterprize is generally most restrained. But this class, which contains the great
capitalists of all countries, are precisely those whose means, if they could be enticed into
activity, would be productive of the most beneficial results. No soil is so barren, no climate
so forbidding, as not to present facilities more or less favourable for the absorption of capital,
and the extension of industry. Wherever the tide of improvement is at its height, and a reflux
ensues, it is to the impolicy of the government, and not to the sterility of the country, that
this retrogradation is to be attributed. Prosperity and happiness belong to no climate, they
are indigenous to no soil: they have been known to fly the allurements of the fertile vale,
and to nestle on the top of the barren mountain: the plains of Latium could not secure their
stay, yet have they freely alit on the snow-capt summits of Helvetia: they have been the faithful
companions of freedom in all her wanderings and persecutions: they have never graced the triumphs
of injustice and oppression.

I have now hastily sketched the principal incidents which have characterized the march of this
colony during the last fifteen years. If I have neglected representing its more early efforts;
if I have excluded from view the amazing difficulties and privations with which its immediate
founders had to contend; if, in fine, I have altogether omitted in the picture the numerous
interesting events that took place during the first fifteen years of its establishment, I have
been induced to all these omissions by a conviction, that the existing system of government,
if not the most eligible that could have been devised, was at least unproductive of those glaring
ill consequences, with which it has subsequently been attended. A singleness of design and
a unity of action, could not be deviated from during the period of its infancy by the most
ignorant and inexpert bungler in political science. There was a broad path open to its government,
which it could not possibly mistake. The colony as yet entirely dependent on external supplies,
always precarious from their very nature, but rendered still more so by a tedious, and at that
time almost unexplored navigation, would unavoidably turn its whole attention to the single
object of raising food, and emancipating itself as soon as possible, from so uncertain and
dangerous a dependence. The principle of fear would have sufficed to propel the colonists to
a spontaneous application of their strength to the realization of this end, independent of
any directing power whatever. It was, therefore, only on the attainment of this most important
point, that the impolicy of the present form of government became a matter of speculation,
and subsequently, that it has been demonstrated by its practical result,--the wretched situation
to which it has reduced a colony, that might be made, as I have satisfactorily established,
one of the most useful and flourishing appendages of the empire. It is at the epoch when the
produce of the colonists began to exceed the demand, and when their industry, instead of being
encouraged and directed into new channels of profitable occupation, was not only left to its
own blind unguided impulse, but also placed under the most impolitic and oppressive restrictions,
that I have taken up the pencil, and made a rapid but faithful delineation of the deplorable
consequences that have been attendant on a concatenation of injudicious and absurd disabilities,
which, though not altogether imposed by its immediate government, would have been easily removed
by the more weighty influence of a combined representative legislature. I have therefore throughout
the whole of this essay, considered the present government not only responsible for its own
impolitic conduct, but also for the existence of those grievances which have been created by
a higher authority, and of which it has wanted the will or the power to procure the repeal.
I have commenced by glancing at some of the most striking events that ancient history affords,
to prove that the prosperity of nations has kept pace with the degree of freedom enjoyed by
their citizens, and that their decadence and eventual overthrow have been invariably occasioned
by a selfish and overwhelming despotism. From these striking illustrations, this steady coincidence
of cause and effect, deduced from the records of the greatest among ancient and modern empires,
I have concluded that every community which has not a free government, is devoid of that security
of person and property which has been found to be the chief stimulus to individual exertion,
and the only basis on which the social edifice can repose in a solid and durable tranquillity.
That the system of government adopted in the colony of New South Wales does not rest on this
foundation stone of private right and public prosperity, I have proved from the detestable
tyranny and consequent arrest of a governor, whose conduct anterior to his being intrusted
with this important charge, it will have been seen, was such as might have led without any
extraordinary powers of discrimination to a prediction of the catastrophe that befel him. The
atrocities perpetrated by this monster, and the events to which they gave rise, are sufficient
to convince the most incredulous, that the colonists have no guarantee for the undisturbed
enjoyment of their rights and liberties, but the impartiality and good pleasure of their governor;
and that they have no resource but in rebellion against the unprincipled attacks and unjustifiable
inroads of arbitrary power. So radically defective, indeed, is the government to which they
are subjected in its very constitution, that it not only holds out, in the uncontrolled authority
which it vests in the hands of an individual, the strongest temptations for the exercise of
tyranny to those who may habitually possess an overbearing and despotic temperament, but has
also a manifest tendency, as history amply attests, to vitiate the heart, and to produce a
spirit of injustice and oppression in those who may have been antecedently distinguished by
a well regulated and humane disposition. While it is thus, on the one hand, calculated to beget
the most monstrous atrocities within the sphere of its jurisdiction, I have shewn that it has
not, on the other, been invested by the power to whom it owes its origin and existence with
the ability to perform any extended good; and that while it involves in its essence all the
elements of destruction, it possesses no one principle of vitality. Of this assertion the administration
of Governor Macquarie, who if you may judge from the length of time during which he has held
this high office, would appear to possess a greater portion of the confidence of his Majesty's
ministers, than any of his predecessors, furnishes an indubitable proof: for relieved as the
mind of the reader will have been from the undivided indignation, disgust, and abhorrence,
which the excesses committed in the foregoing government cannot fail to excite, by a review
of the prudence and moderation by which his career has been contra-distinguished, he will nevertheless
have beheld the colony, from the want of privileges, of which this gentleman has not possessed
sufficient influence to procure the authorization, sinking in spite of his upholding hand,
from a comparative state of affluence and comfort, to the lowest depth of poverty and endurance.
He will have seen the colonists checked in their agricultural pursuits, rushing promiscuously
into every avenue of internal industry that lay open to them, and afterwards constructing vessels,
and not only exploring every known shore within the limits of their territory, in search of
sandal wood, but even discovering unknown islands abounding with seals. He will have viewed
them exhausting these temporary sources of relief, and attempting, but obliged to desist by
the weight of impolitic imposts, both internal and external, from those inexhaustible fountains
of wealth, the valuable whale fisheries that exist in the adjacent seas. He will have beheld
them from inability to purchase the more costly commodities of other countries, making the
most astonishing exertions in manufactures, and thus impelled by necessity to the adoption
of a system not more averse to the interests of the parent country than to their own; and which
under a well regulated government, would have been one of the last effects of maturity and
civilization. And if it had not been for this basin-helmet he might have been killed in that
engagement, for there were plenty of stones raining down on him at that time." He solemnly asked
the other barber whether he was out of his head, for of course anybody could see that it was a
helmet, although, he admitted, not a complete one.

The poor barber was so taken aback, so perplexed that a learned barber, and a seemingly sane
one otherwise, could not tell the difference between a basin and
a helmet that he nearly toppled over. He will have seen that, while the poorer settlers have already in general
fallen victims to the unjust and impolitic disabilities with which they are beset, the circle
of distress has extended itself from these, the central body of the community, to its circumference;
and that the imports have so constantly preponderated in the balance over the united weight
of the income and exports, that the whole wealth of the colony has been continually flowing
into foreign countries, for the payment of the necessary commodities furnished by them, leaving
no money in circulation for the important purposes of domestic economy, and compelling the
colonists by a general, constrained, and tacit convention, to tolerate, as a substitute for
a legitimate circulating medium, a currency possessed of no intrinsic value whatever. He will
have beheld this rapid torrent of distress forcibly driving back the tide of population, both
by the difficulties which it throws in the way of rearing up a family, and by the numerous
bodies of freed convicts, whom it propels to a return to their native country, the greater
part of whom, more from necessity than choice, are led to a resumption of their ancient habits,
in order to procure a subsistence, and either impose on the government the expense of retransporting
them to this colony, or end their career of iniquity by falling victims to the vengeance of
the laws which they had so often violated. He will have seen during these continual and violent
concussions, by which the whole social edifice has been shaken to the foundation, that the
expenditure of the colony has been in a state of the most rapid increase, and that the existing
system of government is incompatible with its diminution. He will, in fine, have been satisfied
that the immorality and vice which it was the main object of the legislature to repress and
extirpate, are making the most alarming progress and extension.

Looking a little beyond these, the actual results of the present order of things, he will find
that it is affording the most efficacious assistance and encouragement to the perfection of
the manufacturing system, already in a state of considerable advancement, and that a few years
more will so greatly circumscribe the means of the colonists, that the majority of them will
be entirely excluded from the use of foreign commodities, and compelled to content themselves
with the homely products of their own ingenuity; and that thus not only one of the great ends
of colonization, the creation of a market for the consumption of the manufactures of the parent
country, will be defeated by her own impolitic conduct, but also a spirit of animosity will
be engendered by the recollection of the privations and sufferings encountered by the colonists
in their tedious and painful march to this unnatural independence in their resources; a spirit
which will be handed down from father to son, acquiring in its descent fresh force, and settling
at length into an hereditary hatred, which it will no longer be in the power of the government
to extinguish, and which will propel them, whenever an opportunity offers, to renounce the
control of such unwise and unfeeling masters. Passing from this gloomy picture of vexatious
tyranny and unmerited suffering, he will proceed to the more grateful contemplation of the
remedies that are proposed as a cure for the present evils, and as a preventive against the
future tremendous eruption with which the existing system, a mountainous agglomeration of impolicy
and barbarity, is so fatally pregnant. He will be satisfied that the application of the restoratives
prescribed, will both reintegrate the agricultural body, now in the last stage of debility
and consumption, and impart fresh life and vigour into the commercial, which is equally impaired;
and that while the parent country will by these means restore the tone and energies of the
colony, she will be contributing in the most effectual manner to her own strength and greatness.
He will be persuaded that all these most desirable ends will inevitably follow the establishment
of a free representative government; and that however salutary the adoption of the measures
proposed might be, unaccompanied with that internal power of legislation from which they would
have eventually proceeded, they would of themselves be utterly inadequate to effect a perfect
and permanent cure for the existing evils; and that nothing short of a local legislature, properly
constituted, can on the one hand either inspire into capitalists that confidence which is essential
to the free unimpeded extension of industry, or be competent on the other, to provide an instant
relief for those growing wants, which spring out of the progress of advancement, and are contingent
on those changes of circumstances and situation, to which incipient communities are so peculiarly
liable. He will, in fine, be convinced even to demonstration, that the erection of a free government
in the colony of New South Wales would be a panacea for all its sufferings; that it is the
only measure which can ease this country of the enormous burden which it will otherwise entail
on her, and save the unspent millions that will be ingulphed, uselessly ingulphed, in the devouring
vortex of the present system; and that the creation of an export trade of raw materials, and
the consequent extended consumption of her manufactures which the proposed change of government
would superinduce, is the only way in which she can ever repay herself for the immense expence
that she has lavished on this colony, as well during the period of its really helpless infancy,
as during the still longer interval of its restrained growth and fictitious imbecillity.

PART IV.

VARIOUS CHANGES PROPOSED IN THE SYSTEM OF GOVERNMENT.

It being thus clear and indubitable that free representative governments are the only foundation
on which the prosperity and happiness of communities can safely repose, it only remains to
ascertain how far the actual circumstances and situation of this colony are compatible with
the concession of so great and important a privilege. At my very offset in this essay, after
glancing in a cursory manner at the history of the most celebrated ancient and modern empires,
and shewing that their progress kept pace with their freedom, and that their retrogradation
is to be dated only from the epoch when they fell under the dominion of arbitrary and ambitious
despots, whose successors gradually completed the work of destruction which they had commenced,
I was compelled in candour to admit that the heterogeneous ingredients of which this colony
was compounded, did not at the period of its foundation, afford his Majesty's government the
power, if they had even possessed the will, to establish a free representative system. It is
therefore incumbent on me, now that I have demonstrated the beneficial influence which free
governments have in promoting the prosperity of communities in general, and have proved that
this colony has for many years been languishing in a state of impeded growth, and tottering
imbecillity, from the inefficiency of its administration to adopt those measures which are
necessary to its revigoration; I say it is incumbent on me to shew that the component parts
of this body politic, have undergone such a change since the period of its creation, as will
warrant its identification in this respect with other states, and justify the conclusion that
such institutions are essential to its welfare as have been found conducive to theirs.

