COLONY,"--OR "FREE STATE"?

                 "DEPENDENCE,"--OR "JUST CONNECTION"?

                        "EMPIRE,"--OR "UNION"?

                               An Essay

   Based on the Political Philosophy of the American Revolution, as
      Summarized in the Declaration of Independence, towards the
 Ascertainment of the Nature of the Political Relationship Between the
            American Union and Its Annexed Insular Regions.

                                  AND

                      THE QUESTION OF TERMINOLOGY

                              An Address

 Containing the Substance of the Foregoing Essay, with some Additions,
    Delivered before the Section for the Study of the Government of
  Dependencies, of the American Political Science Association, at the
             Meeting held at Providence, December 29, 1906

                          By ALPHEUS H. SNOW

                              WASHINGTON
                                 1907

"COLONY,"--OR "FREE STATE"?

"DEPENDENCE,"--OR "JUST CONNECTION"?

"EMPIRE,"--OR "UNION"?

From the time of the acquisition of Porto Rico and the Philippines, in 1898, under a Treaty
with Spain which left indefinite the relations between the American Union and those regions,
the question of the nature of this relationship has been discussed.

The Republican party, which has been in power ever since the war, has justified its acts on
the ground of political necessity. Its policy has been that of giving the people of the Islands
good administration, just treatment, and all practicable self-government. The Democratic party
has declared such a policy to be only imperialism and colonialism under another name. It has
asserted that "no nation can endure half Republic and half Empire" and has "warned the American
people that imperialism abroad will lead quickly and inevitably to despotism at home." It has
characterized the Republican government in the Insular regions as an "indefinite, irresponsible,
discretionary and vague absolutism," and Republican policy as a policy of "colonial exploitation."
That the American people have believed the Republican administration to have been good and
beneficent, is shown by their retaining that party in power. But it is perhaps not too much
to say that nearly all thoughtful persons realize that some part of the Democratic complaint
is just, and that there is at the present time a lack of policy toward the Insular regions,
due to the inability of either of the political parties, or the Government, or the students
and doctors of political science, to propound a theory of a just political relationship between
us and our Insular brethren which will meet with general approbation.

We are, however, not peculiar in this respect. Great Britain, France and Germany are in the
same position. In none of these countries is there any fixed theory of the relationship between
the State and its annexed insular, transmarine and transterranean regions. The British Empire,
so called, containing as it does several strong and civilized States in permanent relationship
with Great Britain, gives many signs, to the student, of the direction in which political thought
is traveling in its progress toward a correct and final theory; but at the present time there
seems to be no prospect of the emergence of a final theory in that country. Here in America,
political thinking, following the line of least resistance, has, as a general rule, concentrated
itself upon the Constitution of the United States, as if in that instrument an answer was to
be found for every political problem with which the Union may be confronted. To some of us,
however, it has appeared inconsistent with the principles of the American Revolution that the
Constitution of the United States should be the Constitution of any communities except the
thirteen States forming the original Union and those which they have admitted into their Union;
and, while yielding to none in our belief in the supremacy of the Constitution throughout the
Union, we have sought to base the relationship between the Union itself and its Territories
and annexed insular, transmarine and transterranean regions, upon such principles as would
enable the American Union to justify itself in the eyes of all civilized nations, and as would
be consistent with the ideas for which it stood at the Revolution. Those of us who thus limit
the effect of the Constitution to the Union are charged with advocating an absolute power of
the Union over its annexed regions. It is assumed that there is no intermediate theory between
that which assumes the Constitution of the American Union to extend to these regions in some
more or less partial and metaphorical way,--for it is evident upon inspection that it cannot
extend in any literal way,--and that which assumes that the Union is the Government of all
these regions with absolute power.

It is a somewhat curious illustration of the truth that history repeats itself that for ten
years before the Continental Congress met in 1774, the British and Americans alike, with some
few exceptions, discussed the question of the relationship between Great Britain and the American
Colonies as one arising from the extension of the Constitution of the State of Great Britain
over America, just as for the past eight years Americans, Porto Ricans and Filipinos alike,
have, with few exceptions, discussed the question of the relationship between us and our Insular
brethren as one arising from the extension of the Constitution of the United States over these
regions. It was not until the Continental Congress had discussed the matter for two years that
this theory was definitely abandoned and the rights of the Americans based upon the principles
which our Revolutionary Fathers considered to be just. We have not yet attained to this broader
view. At the present time the doctrine of the Supreme Court, and therefore of the Government,
is that all acts of the American Government in the annexed insular, transmarine and transterranean
regions, are acts of absolute power, when directed toward communities, though tempered by "fundamental
principles formulated in the Constitution" or by "the applicable provisions of the Constitution,"
when directed toward individuals.

I shall ask the reader to follow me in trying to find out exactly what this broader view of
the Revolutionary Fathers was and to adjudge, on the considerations presented, whether they
did not discover the via media between the theory of the right of a State to govern absolutely
its annexed insular, transmarine and transterranean regions and the right of a State to extend
its Constitution over these regions,--regions which, it is to be remembered, can never, from
their local and other circumstances, participate on equal terms in the institution or operation
of the Government of the State.

In trying to rediscover this via media of the Fathers I shall accept the Declaration of Independence
as the final and complete exposition of their theories, and in interpreting that great document
I shall conform to the established rules of law governing the interpretation of written instruments.

Let me first, however, call attention to the well known, but very interesting fact that the
American people throughout this period of eight years since the Spanish war during which the
question has been discussed by experts almost exclusively as one which relates to the application
of the Constitution outside the Union, have always had an idea that it was the Declaration
of Independence, rather than the Constitution, to which we were to look for the solution of
our Insular problems. In 1900, the Democrats, in their platform, "reaffirmed their faith in
the Declaration of Independence--that immortal proclamation of the inalienable rights of man
and described it as "the spirit of our Government, of which the Constitution is the form and
letter." The Republicans in their platform declared it to be "the high duty of Government ...
to confer the blessings of liberty and civilization upon all rescued peoples," and announced
their intention to secure to these peoples "the largest measure of self government consistent
with their welfare and our duties." The Populists in their platform in the same year, insisted
that "the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution and the American flag are one and inseparable."
The Silver Republicans declared that they "recognized that the principles set forth in the
Declaration of Independence are fundamental and everlastingly true in their application to
government among men." The Anti-Imperialists declared that the truths of the Declaration, not
less self-evident to-day than when first announced by the Fathers, are of universal application,
and cannot be abandoned while government by the people endures." In 1904, the Democratic party,
while professing adherence to fundamental principles declared in favor of casting into the
outer darkness of the fictitious "independence" every people "incapable of being governed under
American laws, and in consonance with the American Constitution," but the Populists still held
to the principles of the Declaration, while the Republicans held to their declarations of 1900.

It is an ancient and well established rule of law for the interpretation of written instruments
that when the meaning of the words used is not so clear as to leave no room for doubt and when
there thus exists what is called in law an ambiguity, it is proper to consider the circumstances
surrounding the execution of the instruments, so that, by placing ourselves as nearly as possible
in the same situation in which the persons who executed the instrument were at the time of
its execution, we may have a basis for forming a reasonable opinion as to which of two or more
possible constructions is correct. That such an ambiguity exists in the Declaration is undeniable.
Opinions concerning the meaning of its philosophic statements, and indeed of nearly all its
statements, differ between extremes at one of which are arrayed those who, with Rufus Choate
and John James Ingalls, regard its philosophic declarations as "glittering generalities," and
at the other of which stand that great body of men and women, living and dead, who, with Abraham
Lincoln, believe, and have believed, that these declarations are the foundation of the only
true and final science of politics. Following this ancient rule of interpretation, therefore,
let us consider the circumstances surrounding the Declaration of Independence.

From the earliest times, the political philosophy of the people of America was directly connected
with the religious and political philosophy of the Reformation. The essence of that philosophy
was that man was essentially a spiritual being; that each man was the direct and immediate
creature of a personal God, who was the First Cause; that each man as such a spiritual creature
was in direct and immediate relationship with God, as his Creator; that between men, as spiritual
creatures, there was no possibility of comparison by the human mind, the divine spark which
is the soul being an essence incapable of measurement and containing possibilities of growth,
and perhaps of deterioration, known only to God; that therefore all men, as essentially spiritual
beings, were equal in the sight of all other men. Luther and Calvin narrowed this philosophy
by assuming that this spiritual nature and this equality were properties only of professing
Christians, but Fox, followed by Perm, enlarged and universalized it by treating the Christian
doctrine as declaratory of a universal truth. Penn's doctrine of the universal "inner light,"
which was in every man from the beginning of the world and will be to the end, and which is
Christ,--according to which doctrine every human being who has ever been, who is, or who is
to be, is inevitably by virtue of his humanity, a spiritual being, the creature of God, and,
as directly and immediately related spiritually to Him, the equal of every other man,--marked
the completion of the Reformation.

According to this theory, the life of animals, who, being created unequal, are from birth to
death engaged in a struggle for existence in which the fittest survives, is eternally and universally
differentiated by a wide and deep chasm from the life of men, who, being created equal, are
engaged in a struggle against the deteriorating forces of the universe in which each helps
each and all and in which each and all labor that each and all may not only live, but may live
more and more abundantly.

According to this theory, also, the glaring inequalities of physical strength, of intellectual
power and cunning, and of material wealth, which are, on a superficial view, the determining
facts of all social and political life, are merely unequal distributions of the common wealth,
and each person is considered to hold and use his strength, his talents and his property for
the development of each and all as beings essentially equal.

According to this theory, also, there is for mankind no "state of nature" in which men are
equally independent and equally disregardful of others, which by agreement or consent becomes
a "state of society" in which men are equally free and equally regardful of others, but the
"state of nature" and the "state of society" are one and the same thing. Every man is regarded
as created in a state of society and brotherhood with all other men, and the "state of nature,"--man's
natural estate and condition,--is the "state of society."

Were anyone asked to sum up in the most concise form possible the ultimate doctrine of the
Reformation, he could, perhaps, epitomize it no more correctly than by the single proposition,
"All men are created equal." This doctrine of human equality arising from common creation,
growing out of Lutheranism and Calvinism through the intellectual influence of Penn, and the
broadening effect of life in this new and fruitful land, underlay all American life and institutions.

One of the results of this final theory of the Reformation was the conception, by certain devout
men and great scholars, of a "law of nature and of nations," based on revelation and reason,
which was universally prevalent, and which governed the relations of men, of communities of
states and of nations. Out of this there had then emerged the conception which has now become
common under the name of International Law, which treats of the temporary relations between
independent states. But the conception of the 'law of nature and of nations' was, as has been
said, vastly wider than this. It was a universal law governing all possible forms of human
relationship, and hence all possible relations between communities and states, and therefore
determining the rights of communities and states which were in permanent relationship with
one another. Based on the theory of the equality of all men by reason of their common creation,
it recognized just public sentiment as the ultimate force in the world for effectuating this
equality, and considered free statehood as the prime and universal requisite for securing that
free development and operation of public sentiment which was necessary in order that public
sentiment might be just.

While this philosophy of the Reformation was thus extending itself in America, both among the
Governments and the people, and in Europe among the people, the Governments of Europe, though
not recognizing the existence of any 'law of nature and of nations' whatever, were nevertheless
acting on the basis that such a law did exist and was based on the proposition that all men
are created unequal, or that some are created equal and some unequal. The alleged superior
was sometimes a private citizen, sometimes a noble, sometimes a monarch, sometimes a government,
sometimes a state, sometimes a nation. The inferior was said to be "dependent" upon the superior--that
is, related to him directly and without any connecting justiciary medium, so that the will
of the superior controlled the will and action of the inferior. It was this alleged law of
nature and of nations, based on an alleged divine or self-evident right of inequality--an inequality
arising from creation--which was the basis of the British Declaratory Act of 1766, which may
perhaps be called "The Declaration of Dependence." The expression "of right ought to have"
clearly meant "has by the law of nature and of nations." Great Britain was thus declared to
be the superior of America, with power according to the law of nature and of nations, to control,
by its will, the will and action of America as a "dependent" country, and of each and all of
its inhabitants as "dependent" individuals.

We discover, then, from an examination of the circumstances surrounding the Declaration of
Independence, a most interesting situation. A young nation, separated by a wide ocean from
Europe, settled by men who were full of the spirit of the Reformation, deeply convinced, after
a national life of one hundred and fifty years, that these principles were of universal application,
was suddenly met by a denial of these principles from the European State with which they were
most intimately related. This denial was accompanied by acts of that State which amounted to
a prohibition of the application of these principles in American political life. A proposed method is
by schools of domestic arts, but, valuable as these are, they are but subsidiary aids to the establishment
of homes; for real homes are primarily centers of ideals and teaching and only incidentally centers
of cooking.

The restoration and raising of home ideals must, then, come from social
life among Negroes themselves; and does that social life need no
leadership?

It needs the best possible leadership of pure hearts and trained heads,
the highest leadership of carefully trained men.

Such are the arguments for the Negro college, and such is the work that
Atlanta University and a few similar institutions seek to do. We believe
that a rationally arranged college course of study for men and women
able to pursue it is the best and only method of putting into the world Negroes
with ability to use the social forces of their race so as to stamp out
crime, strengthen the home, eliminate degenerates, and inspire and
encourage the higher tendencies of the race not only in thought and
aspiration but in every-day toil.

And we believe this, not simply because we have argued that such training
ought to have these effects, or merely because we hope for such results
in some dim future, but because already for years we have seen in the work
of our graduates precisely such results as I have mentioned: successful
teachers of teachers, intelligent and upright ministers, skilled
physicians, principals of industrial schools, business men, and above
all, makers of model homes and leaders of social groups, out from
which radiate subtle but tangible forces of uplift and inspiration.

The proof
of this lies scattered in every State of the South, and, above all, in
the half-unwilling testimony of men disposed to decry our work.

       

Between the Negro college and industrial school there are the strongest
grounds for co-operation and unity. It is not a matter of mere emphasis,
for we would be glad to see ten industrial schools to every college.
It is not a fact that there are to-day too few Negro colleges, but
rather that there are too many institutions attempting to do college
work.

     
     
     But the danger lies in the fact that the best of the Negro colleges
     are poorly equipped and are to-day losing support and countenance,
     and that, unless the nation awakens to its duty, ten years will see
the annihilation of higher Negro training in the South.

We need a few strong, well-equipped Negro colleges, and we need them
now, not to-morrow; unless we can have them and have them decently
supported, Negro education in the South, both common-school and industrial,
is doomed to failure, and the forces of social regeneration will be
fatally weakened, for the college to-day among Negroes is, just as
truly as it was yesterday among whites, the beginning and not the
end of human training, the foundation and not the cap-stone of popular
education.

Strange is it not, my brothers, how often in America those great
watchwords of human energy--"Be strong!" "Know thyself!" He says that he was "very strenuous for retaining
and insisting on it," and the Resolutions show that he succeeded, for they based the American
position on the principles of "free government" and "good government," recognized that the
"consent" of the American Colonies to Acts of the British Parliament justly regulating the
matters of common interest was a "consent from the necessity of the case and a regard to the
mutual interests of both countries," and claimed the rights of "life, liberty and property"
without reference to the British Constitution or the American Charters. Jefferson tells us
that throughout the period of nearly two years which intervened between the assembling of the
Congress and the promulgation of the Declaration the principles of the law of nature and of
nations set forth in the preamble were discussed, and that when he wrote the preamble he looked
at no book, but simply stated the conclusions at which the Congress, with apparently practical
unanimity, had arrived.

But it is not necessary, it would seem, to resort to external evidence to prove that the Declaration
is based on the doctrine of the Reformation. In several places it seems to expressly declare
that the rights claimed by America are claimed under the law of nature and of nations based
on divine revelation and on human reason. In the first sentence, it declares that "the law
of Nature and of Nature's God" entitles the Americans,--it having "become necessary" for them
"to dissolve the political bands which have connected them with" the people of Great Britain,--to
"assume a separate and equal station among the powers of the earth." In the next it declares
not only "that all men are created equal," but that they have "unalienable rights of life,
liberty and the pursuit of happiness," not by virtue of any social contract or other form of
consent, but by "endowment,"--that is, by voluntary gift and grant--of "their Creator." This
doctrine of "endowment" of men with "unalienable rights," by "their Creator," is of course
the Christian doctrine. In the concluding part of the Declaration, it is declared not only
that the United Colonies, as "the United States of America," are "free and independent states,"
but that they "of right ought to be" such, and in that paragraph the "connection between them
and the State of Great Britain" is not merely declared to be "totally dissolved" but it is
also declared that it "ought to be" so dissolved. There was certainly no "right" of the United
Colonies, as the United States of America, to be free and independent states and to declare
the connection between them and the State of Great Britain to be dissolved except upon principles
of some implied common law which was supreme over the Constitution of the State of Great Britain
and the Charters and Constitutions of the Colonies, for none of these Constitutions or Charters
made provision for the dissolution of the connection on any contingency. But is there any other
basis than divine right on which to rest a doctrine of human equality? A doctrine of human
equality by human right, is a doctrine of equality by consent. But if a man can consent regarding
his equality with another man or with other men, he can, as has been often pointed out, consent
himself into a state of permanent inequality, inferiority and slavery, even supposing that
a basis can be found for the assumption of an original state of equality arising from consent.

Assuming then, for the sake of argument at least, that the proposition that all men are created
equal is and was intended to be a statement of the Reformation doctrine in its broadest and
most universal form, a clue is given for the interpretation of the propositions which follow.
If politics, as well as religion, assumes as its basis the proposition that all men are spiritual
beings in direct and permanent relationship with God, and hence equal as regards one another,
then the purpose of both politics and religion is to preserve this equality,--politics by compulsion
and religion by persuasion. Because all men are spiritual beings in direct relationship with
a common Creator who has established laws under which He is the final judge, which men can
ascertain and apply through revelation and reason, men are declared to have rights. Man is
thus distinguished from animals, who have no rights because they have no capacity to know the
law--a knowledge which must inevitably precede a knowledge of the right. Politics looks at
the universal needs of all men,--those needs which each man has in common with all humanity--and
from the universal needs assumes a universal unalienable right of each against each other and
against all, and a universal duty of each toward each other and toward all, to supply these
needs. Religion regards the supplying of these universal needs as a duty toward God. The primary
and universal needs of all mankind, regarded as equal creatures of a common Creator, are the
need of life, the need of liberty and the need of pursuing happiness. These needs are unalienable.
No man can rid himself of them without destroying himself as an equal creature of a common
Creator. Consequently the rights and duties corresponding to these unalienable needs are themselves
unalienable. There is no denial here of alienable rights and duties. But it is clearly laid
down as a fundamental principle of the all-pervasive common law, that rights given by the Creator
are unalienable, and that no human being, however emphatically he may declare, or will, or
agree to the contrary, may by any possible act of any other human being or of any set of human
beings, whether calling themselves a government or not, or by any possible means, deprive himself,
or be deprived of the right of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness--these being necessarily
incidental to the original right of equality.

To apply this interpretation to the relationship between ourselves and our brethren of the
Insular regions: They are, according to the universal and common law of nature and of nations,
as we and all other human beings are, equally creatures of a common Creator and equal with
us. Under that all-pervasive law, they, with us, and all other human beings, are created with
the unalienable need of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, and therefore with corresponding
unalienable rights. Under that law we cannot deprive them of these unalienable rights, nor
allow them to deprive themselves of their unalienable rights, nor allow a part of them to deprive
the others of their unalienable rights. According to the philosophy of the Revolution, every
man, every community, every state and every nation is bound to enforce, and cause to be enforced,
this law of nature and of nations, which prevents the voluntary or involuntary alienation by
any man, any community, any state or any nation of his or its rights of life, liberty and the
pursuit of happiness.

The Declaration, having thus described the ends of all government, proceeds to describe the
methods by which these ends are accomplished. Governments, it is declared, are instituted solely
to secure to each and every being his and their unalienable rights, as equal creatures of a
common Creator, to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. Here is a plain denial that
government is universally the expression of the will of the majority, for it is matter of common
knowledge that in only a few of the most highly civilized countries of the world does the will
of the majority, as it is expressed, secure to each and every person his and their unalienable
rights of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.

There is also an implied denial of the proposition that government is the will of the majority,
in the proposition that "governments are instituted among men." If the Fathers had meant that
government was the will of the majority they would have said, "Men have the right to institute
governments for themselves, according to the will of the majority." What they did was simply
to state as a fact that "governments are instituted among men," which fact is wholly inconsistent
with the hypothesis of a universal right of each and all communities to institute government
for themselves.

There is, however, it would seem, clearly implied in the statement that "to secure these rights
governments are instituted among men," the statement that governments are universal, that they
begin with and continue through human existence,--that government is, as Calvin said, of "not
less use among men than bread and water, light and air, and of much more excellent dignity,"
and therefore the prime necessity of human life,--and that there is a universal right of all
men, all communities, all states and all nations, to such government as will secure these rights;
for the rights which are to be secured being universal, government, which is the instrumentality
for securing them, must also be universal.

Having thus declared governments of a kind suitable to secure the unalienable rights of the
individual to be a universal right, and having by implication declared that it is not essential
in all cases that governments should be instituted by the people governed, and that therefore
there may be cases in which governments may justly be instituted by an external power, the
Declaration proceeds to lay down as a universal proposition that all governments,--existing,
as they do, solely for the purpose of securing to each and every individual his and their unalienable
rights,--do, universally, whether instituted by the consent of the governed or not, "derive
their just powers from the consent of the governed." The expression "deriving their just powers
from" is generally read as if it were "by," and the expression "the consent of the governed"
as if it were "the will of the majority." Both of these readings are so plainly inconsistent
with both the text and the context as to be clearly inadmissible. If the words are taken in
their usual and proper meaning and read in the light of the context and the surrounding circumstances,
it seems at least reasonable to conclude that the expression "deriving their just powers from
the consent of the governed," is and was intended to be an epitome of the two fundamental principles
of the law of agency, brought over into the English law from the Roman. These principles are:
"Obligatio mandati consensu contrahentium consistit," a translation of which is, "The powers
of an agent are derived from the consent of the contracting parties," and "Rei turpis nullum
mandatum est," a translation of which is "No agent can have unjust powers."

On this interpretation a rule is laid down to determine under what circumstances a community,
state, or nation has the right to institute its own government. Its rights are to be determined
by the principles of agency. Agencies among individuals are of several kinds, express and implied,
voluntary and involuntary. There may be co-agencies, in which the performance of one general
agency is distributed among several agents. A person of full capacity has the right, according
to the common law of persons, to appoint his own agent, unless he is in such just relationship
with others that the common interests require that he should adopt as his agent an agent appointed
by the others. So communities, states and nations which are of full capacity, have the right,
assuming the existence of this common law of nature and of nations, to appoint their own governments,
subject to the necessary limitations growing out of their just relationships to other communities,
states and nations. Infants, and persons non compos or spendthrift, are subject, by the principles
of the common law of persons, to have an involuntary agency created for them by the Chancellor
until the disability is removed, if the disability is temporary, or permanently, if the disability
is permanent. The same is true by the law of nature and of nations, if the interpretation I
have suggested be correct, regarding communities, states and nations, which are in a condition
of infancy or anarchy, or are spendthrift. The Chancellor or Justiciar, whether a person, a
state, or a nation, must possess the qualities and attributes of a Chancellor and Justiciar,
and proceed as a Chancellor and Justiciar. Otherwise the attempt to create an involuntary agency
for the suitor is nugatory. The fact that a person who is an infant, or non compos, or spendthrift,
has an involuntary agency created for him by the Chancellor, does not destroy, or in any way
affect, the juridical personality of such person, or his political equality with other persons;
and, by parity of reasoning, the fact that a community which would otherwise be recognized
as having free statehood and political personality and equality with other free states, has
an involuntary government appointed for it by a Justiciar State, on account of its being in
a weak or infantile condition, or on account of its being anarchic or spendthrift, can not
destroy or in any way affect its free statehood,--or, what is the same thing, its political
personality,--or its equality with other free states.

A further meaning apparently is that the first object of all government is to do justice, and
the second object to do the will of the governed. A government which recognizes itself as deriving
its just powers from the consent of the governed, is bound to do justice in such manner as
will conform to the just public sentiment of the governed. It is in no case bound to execute
the will of the governed, much less the will of the majority, unless that will conforms to
justice in the particular case. Nor can it do an unjust act and plead in justification the
consent of the governed, for the consent of the governed to an unjust act is void by the law
of nature and of nations. This principle was often appealed to by the Americans, notably in
the final manifesto of 1778, as an answer to the British claim that the Americans were bound
by the restrictive Acts of Parliament on account of their acquiescence in them. They said that
an attempted consent to an unjust act of government was a nugatory act, an unjust act of government
being itself nugatory, and deserving obedience only from motives of policy.

This doctrine that government is the doing of justice according to public sentiment is, of
course, utterly opposed to the doctrine that government is the will of the majority. If government
is the doing of justice according to public sentiment, government is the expression and application
of a spiritually and intellectually educated public sentiment, since the knowledge of what
is just comes only after a course of spiritual and intellectual education, and the forms and
methods of government should be such as are adapted to such spiritual and intellectual education.
Education takes place by direct personal contact, and can best be accomplished only through
the establishment of permanent groups of individuals who are all under the same conditions.
The formation and expression of a just public sentiment, therefore, requires the establishment
of permanent groups of persons, more or less free from any external control which interferes
with their rightful action, under a leadership which makes for their spiritual and intellectual
education in justice. Such permanent groups within territorial limits of suitable size for
developing and expressing a just public sentiment, are free states. Territorial divisions of
persons set apart for the purpose of convenience in determining the local public sentiment,
regardless of its justness or unjustness, are not states, but are mere voting districts. Just
public sentiment, for its expression and application, requires the existence of many small
free states, disconnected to the extent necessary to enable each to be free from all improper
external control in educating itself in the ways of justice; mere public sentiment, for its
expression and application, requires only the existence of a few great states, unitary in their
form and divided into voting districts. Just public sentiment, as the basis of government,
is a basis which makes government a mighty instrument for spirituality and growth; mere public
sentiment, regardless of its justness or unjustness, as the basis of government, is a basis
which makes government a mighty instrument for brutality and deterioration. Human equality,
unalienable rights, just public sentiment, and free statehood, are inevitably and forever linked
together, as reciprocal cause and effect.

All the American public men were agreed that the American Colonies, so called, were and always
had been free states, and that the State of Great Britain, acting through or symbolized by
its Chief Executive or its Chief Legislature, or both of them was a governmental agency, and
a connecting medium, of all the free states which were connected with it, and which with it
formed what they called "The British Empire." Some based this right of free statehood and political
connection on the Colonial Charters; some on the doctrine of the extension to the Colonies
of the Constitution of the State of Great Britain in a partial and metaphorical manner; some
thought that the Colonies had always been not only free states, but also free and independent
states, and that the political connection between them and the State of Great Britain was,
and always had been, by consent, that is, by implied treaty. Upon careful examination, all
these theories were found to be untenable. The Colonial Charters clearly did not intend to
recognize the Colonies as free states, much less as free and independent states; the doctrine
of the extension to them of the British Constitution was inconsistent with their statehood
in any sense; and there was not a vestige of anything which could be regarded as a treaty between
the Colonies and Great Britain. Finally, therefore, all were apparently brought to see that
there was nothing on which to base the American claim that the Colonies were and always had
been states, free or free and independent, except "the law of nature and of nations," and not
even the law of nature and of nations as it was understood by the Governments of Europe, but
a law of nature and of nations which was based on the broadest principles of the Reformation.
Free statehood for the American Colonies was apparently asserted as a universal right of all
communities, states and nations, because free statehood was considered by the framers of the
Declaration to be the universal and only means of forming and expressing a just public sentiment,
and therefore to be the universal and only means of securing the universal and unalienable
rights of individuals.

The Declaration denies even to all the people of a free state the right to change their government
when and how they will, and according to mere public sentiment, regardless of its justness.
Their right "to alter or abolish" a "form of government" is declared to exist, according to
the law of nature and of nations, only when that form of government "becomes destructive of
these ends," that is, when a government, instead of securing the unalienable rights of the
individuals governed, attempts to destroy these rights. Moreover, it is declared that when
the people alter or abolish one form of government, their right of establishing a new government
is not absolute, but is limited, according to the law of nature and of nations, so that in
establishing a new form of government they are obliged to "lay its foundation on such principles
and organize its powers in such form, as to them shall seem most likely to effect their safety
and happiness,"--that is, to secure the unalienable rights of the individual to life, liberty
and the pursuit of happiness. This limitation upon the powers of even the whole people of a
state necessarily results from the fact that the law of nature and of nations is universal
and governs so completely every human act and relationship that no act can be done and no relationship
formed which violates the unalienable rights of any individual. How the law of nature and of
nations is to be enforced, the Declaration does not say. Apparently the obligation to enforce
it rests upon every individual, every community, every body corporate, every state and every
nation, and the ultimate force which compels its application is the just public sentiment of
the world, or, as Rivier called it, "the common juridical conscience." It is asserted with
much more clearness in the concluding part of the Declaration, which reads:

     "We, therefore,... declare that these United Colonies are,
     and of right ought to be, free and independent states,...
     and that all political connection between them and the State
     of Great Britain is, and ought to be, totally dissolved."

A comparison of the words used by the Congress with those used by the Virginia Convention and
those used by Jefferson in the first draft, shows how much the judgment of the Congress was
clarified by the great debate which occurred between May 15 and June 10, 1776, when the wording
above quoted was agreed upon.

The wording of the Virginia resolution, if it had been adopted, would have implied that the
Colonies had theretofore been "dependent upon the Crown and Parliament of Great Britain," and
that their statehood, their free statehood, and their independent statehood came into existence
by virtue of their declaring themselves free and independent states.

The wording of Jefferson's first draft, if it had been adopted, would have implied that a "political
connection" might or might not have theretofore existed between the American people and "the
people or Parliament of Great Britain," and that if such a political connection had existed,
the American people had the right to secede from it, whenever they considered that the terms
of the connection were not observed by the people or Parliament of Great Britain, and that
by such act of secession, and by their Declaration, their rights of statehood, of free statehood
and of independent statehood came into existence.

The wording of the Declaration which was actually adopted implied that the Colonies had always
been free states or free and independent states, and that, by the Declaration, at most their
right of independent statehood came into existence, that they had theretofore at all times
been in political connection, either as free states under the law of nature and of nations,
or as free and independent states by implied treaty, with the free and independent state of
Great Britain, that the dissolution of the connection had not come about by an act of secession
on their part, but was due to the violation, by the State of Great Britain, either of the law
of nature and of nations, or of the implied treaty on which the political connection was based.

The term "connection" was an apt term to express a relationship of equality and dignity. "Connection"
implies two things, considered as units distinct from one another, which are bound together
by a connecting medium. Just connection implies free statehood in all the communities connected.
Union is a form of connection in which the connected free states are consolidated into a unity
for the common purposes, though separate for local purposes. Merger is the fusion of two or
more free states into a single unitary state. Connection between free states may be through
a legislative medium, or through a justiciary medium, or through an executive medium. The connecting
medium may be a person, a body corporate, or a state. States connected through a legislative
medium, whether a person, a body corporate or a state, and whether wholly external to the states
connected or to some extent internal to them, whose legislative powers are unlimited or which
determines the limits of its own legislative powers, are "dependent" upon or "subject" to the
will of the legislative medium. Such states are "dependencies," "dominions," "subject states,"
or more accurately "slave-states,"--or more accurately still, not states at all, but mere aggregations
of slave individuals. States connected through a legislative medium, whether a person, a body
corporate or a state, and whether wholly external to the states connected or in part internal
to them, whose legislative powers are granted by the states and which has only such legislative
powers as are granted are in a condition of limited dependence, dominion, and subjection, but
their relationship is by their voluntary act and they may, and by the terms of the grant always
do to some extent control the legislative will to which they are subject and on which they
are dependent. Where states are connected or united through a justiciary medium, whether that
justiciary medium is a person, a body corporate, or a state, all the states are free states,
their relationships being governed by law. Where states are connected through an executive
medium, whether that executive medium is a person, a body corporate, or a state, all the states
are free and independent states, and each acts according to its will. All connections in which
the legislative medium--whether a person, a body corporate or a state, and whether wholly external
to the states connected, or to some extent internal to the states connected,--has unlimited
legislative powers or determines the limits of its own legislative powers, are fictitious connections,
the relationship being really one which implies "empire" or "dominion" on one side, and "subjection"
or "dependence" on the other. Such connections are properly called "empires" or "dominions."
So also all connections in which the only connecting medium is a common executive, whether
a person, a body corporate or a state, are fictitious connections, the relationship being one
of "permanent alliance" or "confederation" between independent states. Such connections are
properly called "alliances" or "confederations." The only true connections are those in which
there is a legislative medium, whether a person, a body corporate or a state, whose legislative
powers are limited, by agreement of the connected states, to the common purposes, and those
in which there is a justiciary medium, whether a person, a body corporate, or a state, which
recognizes its powers as limited to the common purposes by the law of nature and of nations,
and which ascertains and applies this law, incidentally adjudicating, according to this law,
the limits of its own jurisdiction. Just connections tend to become unions, it being found
in practice necessary, for the preservation of the connection in due order, that the power
of adjudicating and applying the law for the common purposes should extend not only to the
states, but to all individuals throughout the states.

Thus "dependence," as a fictitious and vicious form of connection, is, it would appear, forever
opposed to "connection" of a just and proper kind. If it were attempted to sum up the issue
of the American Revolution in an epigram, would not that epigram be: "Colony,"--or "Free State"?
"Dependence,"--or "Just Connection"? "Empire,"--or "Union"?

Summarizing, then, the result of this examination of the philosophy of the Declaration, so
far as it relates to communities rather than persons, it appears that the central conception
of this philosophy is that of a universal right of free statehood. This conception, more specifically,
is, it seems, that all communities on the earth's surface, within limits of territorial extent
of such reasonable dimensions that within the area of each the just common sentiment about
local concerns and external relations can be conveniently ascertained and executed, have an
unalienable right to be free states and as such to have their respective just local sentiments
about local matters ascertained and executed by their respective governments, this being, according
to Revolutionary philosophy, essential to make effective the right of each and every person
to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. But a universal right of free statehood does
not imply a universal right of self-government. Statehood and self-government are two different
and distinct conceptions. The Americans claimed the right of free statehood as a part of the
universal rights of man, but they claimed the right of self-government because they were Englishmen
trained by generations of experience in the art of self-government and so capable of exercising
the art. A free state is not less or more a free state because it has self-government. It is
a free state when its just public sentiment is to any extent ascertained and executed by its
government, free from the control of any external power. It does not prevent a region from
being a free state that its government is wholly or partly appointed by an external power,
if that government is free from external control in ascertaining and executing the just local
sentiment to any extent. Nor does it interfere with the right of free statehood when an external
power stands by merely to see that the local government ascertains and executes the just local
sentiment to a proper extent. The external power in that case is upholding the free statehood
of the region. It stands as surety for the continuance of free statehood.

The right of self-government, according to this view, is a conditional universal right. When
a community, inhabiting a region of such territorial extent that it is not too large to make
it possible for a just public sentiment concerning its own affairs to be developed and executed,
and not so small as to make it inconvenient that it should be in any respect free from external
control, is of such moral and intellectual capacity that it can form and execute a just public
sentiment concerning its internal affairs and its relations with other communities, states
and nations, it has not only the right of free statehood,--that is, of political personality,--which
is of universal right, but also the right of self-government. The right of such a free state
to self-government is complete if there be no just political connection or union between it
and other free states, or partial, if such a just connection or union exists, being limited,
in this latter case, to the extent necessary for the preservation, in due order, of the connection
or union.

The Declaration, by declaring the Colonies to be free and independent States and following
this statement by the statement that the political connection between them and the State of
Great Britain was dissolved, leaves it doubtful whether the American claim was that the Colonies
had always been free and independent States in treaty connection with Great Britain or merely
free states in connection with Great Britain under the law of nature and of nations. The arrangement
of the sentences was probably necessary to satisfy the extreme states rights party, but the
study of great documents discloses that nearly all contain such compromises, and that the judgment
of posterity usually approves the judgment of the less extreme party. The severity of their losses is eloquent
testimony. 'Boomer' Barrett came down the field, shot through the face, cheerfully announcing his
good luck: 'I've got a soft one, right through the cheek.' I have spoken of the 53rd Sikhs. They
lost their four senior officers, killed.

But every regiment had brave leaders to mourn. One thinks with grief and admiration
of that commander, a noble and greatly beloved man, whom a bullet
struck down, so that he died without recovering consciousness several
days later.

Though
the body's tasks were finished, his mind worked on the fact that
his men had been temporarily checked, and he kept up the cry, 'What
will they say in England?

The ---- fell back; ---- failed them.' Even so, when duty has become
life's ruling atmosphere,

One stern tyrannic thought which makes
All other thoughts its slave,

it matters little that the body should
fail.

The mind labours yet, fulfilling its unconscious
allegiance.

He went, unterrified, Into the Gulf of Death.

In my aid-post we carried on, secure beneath our canopy of racing
shells.

The slope gave cover against 'over' bullets, except when it was necessary to walk about. Early in the afternoon,
during a lull, a doctor appeared and asked if it was safe to bring up his ambulances. I told him 'Yes';
there were dropping bullets, but very little shell-fire. He replied
that he would come immediately.

But
the supply of shells greatly quickened, and he did not appear again
till near darkness, when he brought two motor ambulances, taking five
sitting and four lying cases in each.

He promised to return, but did not. Apart from these eighteen, only the walking wounded got away, pushing
back into our noisy and perilous hinterland.

About four o'clock the Turks, in reply to our intense bombardment,
put a brief but terrific fire on the mounds, blowing up men on every
side.

I decided to clear out to where, round the corner, an old wall gave upright shelter. As our first
exodus swung round, a huddled, hobbling mass, two 'coal-boxes' burst in quick succession, each closer than
the last shell before it.

I shouted 'Duck!' We ducked, then made a few yards and ducked for the second
time. A perfect sleet of wind and steel seemed to pass overhead. But
no one was hit, and we were round the corner, where, I fear, I dropped
the Cherub with considerable emphasis on his gammy leg. But indeed we
were very lucky. Shells burst on every side of the aid-post--on right
and left, but not on us. This was one of the rare occasions when I have
felt confidence. Dobson and I were far too busied to worry. Also
it seemed hard to believe that a shell would be allowed to fall on
that shattered, helpless suffering. I saw, without seeing, things
that are burnt into memory. We had no morphia, nothing but bandages.
There was a man hit in the head, who just flopped up and down, seemingly
invertebrate as an eel, calling out terribly for an hour till he
died.

They considered, as I interpret their language, that the connection between the American Colonies,
as free states, and the free and independent State of Great Britain had existed and of right
ought to have existed under the law of nature and of nations, interpreted in so broad a sense
that it may perhaps be called the American system of the law of nature and of nations. They
accordingly claimed, as I understand them, that Great Britain, as a free and independent state,
had power, as Justiciar over the American free states for the common purposes of the whole
connection, to finally decide, in a judicial manner, according to the principles of the law
of nature and of nations, upon all questions arising out of the connection between them; and
that each of the American free states had power, through its legislature, to legislate according
to the just public sentiment in each, concerning its purely local matters, and had the right
to have its local legislation executed by its executive, and interpreted and applied in private
cases by its courts.

Some of the Americans, and those the most patriotic and conservative, thought that Great Britain
had jurisdiction to ascertain and execute the law of nations for the common purposes, and in
the exercise of that jurisdiction to control, by its decrees and regulations, the action of
individuals in the Colonies. This was to regard Great Britain and America as consolidated for
the common purposes so as to form what may be called a Justiciary Union. They were content,
so long as Great Britain acted on the theory that she was the Justiciar of the British-American
Union for the common purposes, and maintained a competent tribunal for determining what were
common and what local purposes according to the principles of the law of nature and of nations,
that she should finally determine the limits of her own jurisdiction as the Justiciar State
of the Union. The sentiment that brings us here to-day is one of the noblest that can stir and thrill
the human heart. It has crowned and made glorious the high places of all civilized nations with the
grandest and most enduring works of art, designed to illustrate the
characters and perpetuate the memories of great public men.

It is the sentiment, which from year to year adorns with fragrant and beautiful flowers the graves of
our loyal, brave, and patriotic soldiers who fell in defense of the Union and Liberty. It is the
sentiment of gratitude
and appreciation, which often, in the presence of many who hear me,
has filled yonder heights of Arlington with the eloquence of eulogy
and the sublime enthusiasm of poetry and song; a sentiment which can
never die while the Republic lives.

In this view, the actions of the Americans show the evolution of a continuous theory and policy,
and the application of a single system of principles,--a system which was based upon free statehood,
just connection and union. The British-American Union of 1763 was a Union of States under the
State of Great Britain as Justiciar, that state having power to dispose of and make all rules
and regulations respecting the connected and united free states, needful to protect and preserve
the connection and union, according to the principles of the law of nature and of nations.
The dissolution of this Union, caused by the violation by the State of Great Britain of its
duties as Justiciar State, gave a great impetus to the extreme states' rights party, and the
next connection formed,--that of 1778 under the Articles of Confederation,--was not a Union,
the Common Government (the Congress) being merely a Chief Executive. Such a connection proving
to be so slight as to be little more than a fiction, they formed, under the Constitution of
1787, the only other kind of a union which appears to be practicable, namely, a union under
a common government which was a Chief Legislature for all the connected and united states by
their voluntary grant, and whose powers were expressly limited, by limitation in the grant,
to the common purposes of the whole connection and union of free states.

The power exercised by a Justiciar State in a Justiciary Union, the Fathers recognized as being
neither strictly legislative, nor strictly executive, nor strictly judicial, but a power compounded
of all these three powers. They considered that it was to be exercised after investigation
by judicial methods, both of the facts and principles and of the public sentiment; that the
just public sentiment of the free states connected and united with the Justiciar State was
to be executed in local matters and was to be considered in the determination of the common
affairs; and that the action of the Justiciar State was to result, after proper hearing of
the free states concerned, in regulations which were to have the force of supreme law in each
of the connected and united free states respectively. This kind of power, which the Fathers
called "the superintending power" or "the disposing power" under the law of nature and of nations,
and which may be called, using an expression now coming into use, "the power of final decision,"
being neither legislative nor executive, but more nearly executive than legislative, the more
conservative among them considered might be exercised, consistently with the principles of
the law of nature and of nations, either by the Legislative Assembly of the Justiciar State
or by its Chief Executive. This right of both the Legislative Assembly and of the Chief Executive
to exercise the powers of the Justiciar State under the law of nature and of nations is, I
believe, also recognized by our Constitution, as I have elsewhere attempted to show.

The Fathers further considered, if my understanding of their belief is correct, that, inasmuch
as both the Legislative Assembly and the Chief Executive of the Justiciar State, in exercising
its power over the free states connected and united with it, and throughout the Justiciary
Union, have as their function the ascertainment of facts and the application of the principles
of the law of nature and of nations to those facts, they ought to exercise this function by
the advice of a permanent Administrative Tribunal, properly constituted so as to advise them
intelligently and wisely. As I have said above, the Revolutionary statesmen considered, as
it would seem, that the Committee of the Privy Council for Plantation Affairs, assisted by
the Board of Commissioners for Trade and Plantations, had, up to 1763, constituted such an
Administrative Tribunal. They considered also, it would seem, that neither the Chief Executive
nor the Legislative Assembly was bound by the action of this Administrative Tribunal, its action
being wholly advisory, but that the Chief Executive was bound to take its advice before making
his dispositions; and that the Chief Executive, when acting as an Administrative Tribunal for
disposing and regulating the common affairs of the free states of the Justiciary Union, after
taking the advice of this permanent Administrative Tribunal, was a tribunal of first instance. A proposed
method is by schools of domestic arts, but, valuable as these are, they are but subsidiary aids to the
establishment of homes; for real homes are primarily centers of ideals and teaching and only
incidentally centers of cooking.

The restoration and raising of home ideals must, then, come from social
life among Negroes themselves; and does that social life need no
leadership?

It needs the best possible leadership of pure hearts and trained heads, the highest leadership of carefully
trained men.

Such are the arguments for the Negro college, and such is the work that
Atlanta University and a few similar institutions seek to do. We believe that
a rationally arranged college course of study for men and women able
to pursue it is the best and only method of putting into the world
Negroes with ability to use the social forces of their race so as to
stamp out crime, strengthen the home, eliminate degenerates, and
inspire and encourage the higher tendencies of the race not only in
thought and aspiration but in every-day toil.

And we believe this, not simply because we have argued that such training ought to have these effects, or merely because
we hope for such results in some dim future, but because already for years we have seen in the work
of our graduates precisely such results as I have mentioned: successful teachers of teachers,
intelligent and upright ministers, skilled physicians, principals of industrial schools, business men, and above
all, makers of model homes and leaders of social groups, out from
which radiate subtle but tangible forces of uplift and inspiration.

The proof of this lies scattered in every State of the South, and, above all, in the half-unwilling
testimony of men disposed to decry our work.

Between the Negro college and industrial school there are the strongest grounds for co-operation
and unity. It is not a matter of mere emphasis, for we would be glad to see ten industrial schools
to every college. It is not a fact that there are to-day too few Negro colleges, but rather that there
are too many institutions attempting to do college work. But the danger lies in the fact that the best of the Negro
colleges are poorly equipped and are to-day losing support and countenance,
and that, unless the nation awakens to its duty, ten years will see the
annihilation of higher Negro training in the South. We need a few strong, well-equipped
Negro colleges, and we need them now, not to-morrow; unless we can
have them and have them decently supported, Negro education in the
South, both common-school and industrial, is doomed to failure, and
the forces of social regeneration will be fatally weakened, for the college
to-day among Negroes is, just as truly as it was yesterday among
whites, the beginning and not the end of human training, the foundation
and not the cap-stone of popular education.

Strange is it not, my brothers, how often in America those great
watchwords of human energy--"Be strong!" "Know thyself!"

Of course there must be conditions of transition where the relations between free states which
would normally be in union, or between detached portions of what would normally be a unitary
state, temporarily assume a form which is partly one of union or merger, and partly of dependency.
The justification of all such forms of relationship must, it would seem, be found in the fundamental
right which every independent state, whether a justiciar state or not, has to the preservation
of its existence and its leadership or judgeship--that is, in the right of self-preservation,
which, when necessary to be invoked, overrules all other rights. On this theory must, it would
seem, be explained the relations between the American Union and its Territories between Germany
and Alsace-Lorraine, and between England and Ireland. On this theory of self-preservation,
also, must, it would seem, be explained the permanent relationship of dependency which exists
between the District of Columbia and the American Union--such dependency being necessary to
the preservation of the life of the Union.

Thus, if our interpretation of the Declaration is correct, there was evolved in it, out of
the original proposition that "all men are created equal," a complete system of the philosophy
of government, directly the opposite of the system of Europe which was based on the proposition
that 'all men are created unequal,' or that "some are created equal and some unequal," and
the Declaration of Independence was a declaration of an American System, as opposed to the
European System. If this interpretation be correct, it was to preserve this American System
that President Washington advised against 'political connection' with Europe, and that President
Jefferson warned America against "entangling alliances," it was this American System which
President Monroe and President Adams declared to have extended itself throughout this hemisphere;
it was this American System to preserve which the Civil War was fought and to the maintenance
of which President Lincoln rededicated the American people on the field of Gettysburg, it is
this American System which President Roosevelt has upheld against the forces in our midst,
which on the one side have, by the wrongful use of accumulations of wealth, sought to establish
a doctrine of inequality based on the possession of property, and on the other side, by denying
the rightfulness of all accumulations of wealth, have sought to establish a doctrine that the
inequalities of physical wealth and intellectual ability are to be destroyed, instead of being
employed, by those endowed with great wealth or great ability, as the common wealth, in helping
each and all to secure their unalienable rights of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness
and thus to realize the divine right of equality, it is this American System which the American
Congress under the leadership of President McKinley and President Roosevelt, has actually applied
in the determination of our relations with the Insular regions, so that they are to-day free
states de facto connected and united with the American Union as the Justiciar State, and so
that it needs only our recognition to convert them into free states de jure and to bring into
legal existence a Greater American Union of Free States of which our present Union will be
the Supreme Justiciary Head, determining the questions arising out of the relationship not
by edict founded on will and force, but by decision carefully made in each case after ascertaining
the facts and the principles of the law of nature and of nations which are properly applicable.

If the principles and the corresponding terms adopted by the Revolutionary Fathers were adopted
by them as of universal significance, and if they were right, must we not apply these principles
and these terms to-day, when the position of America is reversed and she stands as a great
and independent State in relationship with distant communities which are so circumstanced that
they can never participate on equal terms in the institution and operation of her government?
Must not this law of nature and of nations according to the American System, which for us underlies
all other law and which is the Spirit of the Constitution itself, determine for us whether
or not we shall continue to use the terms 'colony,' or "dependence," or "empire"?

If we must admit as Americans a universal right of free statehood, is it proper to call Hawaii,
Porto Rico, the Philippines or Guam 'colonies'? They are inhabited and we do not propose to
colonize them. If they are free states in union with the American Union as the Justiciar State
and form with it a Greater American Union, is it proper to call them "dependencies," which
may imply a direct legislative power over them? And if the American Union is only the Justiciar
State of the whole Greater American Union of Free States, composed of the American Union and
its Territories and Insular regions, with power of final decision for the common purposes according
to the law of nature and of nations why speak of this as "Empire," which may imply absolute
power and a denial that there exists a universal law of nature and of nations protecting alike
the rights of persons communities states and nations?

But it will be said the conception I have outlined is impracticable. Judging from the characteristics
of human nature, a state which declares itself the Justiciar of a Union of free states in permanent
political connection with it, for the purpose of discovering and applying the principles of
the law of nations in the just conduct of the common affairs of the Union, is likely, if it
acts as a true Justiciar to accomplish much more by the persuasive effect of justice exercised
in accordance with an overruling law of nature and of nations, than is an Emperor-State by
the issuing of edicts based on a claim of right to be the supreme legislative power over non-represented
regions.

Widely scattered free states which are in political connection or union must necessarily have
some charge of their own defence both physically and commercially, and the right to protect
and support themselves by tariff taxation must necessarily include the right to lay a tariff
against the Central State as well as against the other connected states and against foreign
states. All these conflicting rights must be harmonized by the Central State, and it must at
the same time provide from the common resources for the common defence and welfare. The questions
growing out of such relations are the most complicated known to politics. It seems that a Justiciar
State acting upon the advice of properly constituted administrative tribunals, which habitually
act judicially and whose function is to decide all questions according to law and justice is
much more likely to solve such problems by investigation hearing and adjudication than is a
Legislator State to settle them by edict, or than is an Executive State to procure a settlement
of them by persuading the parties to confer and compromise.

Is not this theory the true via media? The theory of the automatic extension of the constitution
of a state over its annexed insular, transmarine and transterranean regions which from their
local or other circumstances can never equally participate in the institution and operation
of its government, in some cases protects individual rights, but it takes no account of the
right of free statehood, which is the prime instrumentality for securing these rights. The
theory of a power over these regions not regulated by a supreme and universal law, is a theory
of absolute power over both individuals and communities in these regions. The theory of a power
over these regions based on the principles of the law of nature and of nations, granting that
this law is itself based on the divine right of human equality, protects the rights of persons,
of communities, of states and of nations.

This theory is not inconsistent with the present doctrine of the Supreme Court of the United
States. It is an application and extension of that doctrine. To say, as does the Supreme Court,
that the American Union has power over its annexed Insular regions restricted by "the fundamental
principles formulated in the Constitution," or by "the applicable provisions of the Constitution,"
is to say that the power of the Union over these regions is exercised under a supreme law which
is not the Constitution of the United States; for "principles formulated in the Constitution"
are not the Constitution, and to say that "the applicable provisions" of the Constitution are
the Constitution is to say that a part is the whole. Such a supreme law can only be a supreme
common law, and a common law can be supreme over a group of scattered states only because it
is universal. The only difference between this doctrine and that of the Supreme Court is that
the Court's doctrine protects only civil rights, while this protects both civil and political
rights.

By adopting this theory of the Reformation and the American Revolution, may not the American
System extend indefinitely without danger to America herself? There would be no domination,
no subjection. The same law of nature and of nations would extend over and govern throughout
the whole Greater American Union. This Greater American Justiciary Union would be but a logical
application of the principles underlying the American Legislative, Executive and Judicial Union
formed by the Constitution of the United States. It would not be the Constitution which would
follow the flag into the regions which America has annexed to herself, but the law of nature
and of nations according to the American System. If the Revolutionary theory as I have interpreted
it is correct, this law of nature and of nations is everywhere pervasive throughout the American
System of Free States. It is greater than the Constitution of the United States. The Constitution
lives in so far as it truly declares the law of nature and of nations according to the American
System. If the Constitution is interpreted contrary to this law, as authorizing the Union to
treat its annexed regions as subjects or as creating a hiatus or a conflict between the powers
of the Central and the Local Governments, this overruling law will compel a new interpretation.
On this theory the "Territory Clause" of the Constitution recognizes the law of nature and
of nations as determining the relationship between the American Union and the Insular regions--"needful"
rules and regulations being those which are adapted to accomplish the end desired and which
are in accordance with the principles of the law of nature and of nations as declared in the
Declaration of Independence.

How can such a theory endanger the Republic? It will require some new institutions, no doubt,
but they will be institutions in line with republican ideas and ideals, for they will all be
institutions for discovering and applying the principles of the common law. We shall only have
to enlarge our conception of the common law, by adding to the definition of Coke, and saying
that it is "the perfection of reason and revelation."

Out of this theory of a universal common law of nations have emerged the science of the Law
of the State, which deals with the internal relations of states, and the science of International
Law, which deals with the temporary relations between independent States. Why out of the same
theory should there not emerge a science of the Law of Connections and Unions of States, based
on the proposition that free statehood is the normal form of all community life and the right
of all communities within proper limits on the surface of the earth, and which will deal with
the permanent relations between free states, whether independent or not,--a science which will
occupy the wide field of human relationships which lies between that now occupied by the science
of the Law of the State and that now occupied by the science of International Law?

To those who regard all law as an aggregate of eternal and universal principles inhering in
the nature of things, which are discoverable by man through revelation and reason, and who
therefore regard all governmental action as the ascertainment and application of these principles,
the conception of a common and universal Law of Connections and Unions of Free States and that
of a common and universal International Law, are equally without difficulty. To those who regard
all law as an act of human will supported by force, the conception of a common and universal
Law of Connections and Unions of Free States and that of a common and universal International
Law, are equally impossible; and indeed these persons are logically obliged to deny the existence
of any common law of any kind. To those who occupy the middle ground and regard all law as
in one aspect the ascertainment and application of eternal principles, and in another aspect
an act of human will supported by force, the conception of a common and universal Law of Connections
and Unions of Free States is less difficult than that of a common and universal International
Law, for the former implies a Justiciar State which is capable of enforcing its decisions and
dispositions, while the latter implies the non-existence of any political power capable of
enforcing the action agreed or decided upon.

Fortunately, there is every evidence that at the present time this narrow political sect who
believe that law is only a human edict supported by physical force,--this sect which had its
origin in the dark decades of the nineteenth century when the materialistic philosophy prevailed--is
dying out, under the influence of a general renaissance. There are, it is to be believed, many
who will be ready and willing to accept as true the statement, which every student of political
history must admit to be true, that the philosophy of the American Revolution was a religious
philosophy. It is indeed perhaps not too much to say that the period of the American Revolution
was the period in which both political and religious thinking reached the highest point, and
that there is no question of government which has since arisen which was not either solved
by the Revolutionary statesmen or put in the process of solution.

The political philosophy of the American Revolution has long been confused with that of the
French Revolution. As matter of fact, they stand at opposite poles. Our philosophy was religious,
the French non-religious. America had been peacefully assimilating, for a century and a half,
the doctrines of the Reformation. France had been held for two centuries and a half in a condition
of mediaevalism, and the principles of the Reformation had little hold among the people. When
the Americans spoke, it was with the calm wisdom of free-men; when the French spoke, it was
with the folly and excess of intellectual and spiritual slaves who had suddenly emancipated
themselves. To the Americans, to whom government was the expression of the just public sentiment,
government, equally with religion, was a necessary good; to the French, to whom government
was the expression of the will of the majority, whether just or unjust, government was a necessary
evil and religion an unnecessary evil. The French Revolution made itself felt, even in America,
for a century. Till within recent years, its principles have obscured, though they have never
wholly eclipsed, the principles of the American Revolution. But now there seems reason to believe
that the French Revolution has spent its force, and that the influence of the American Revolution
is growing daily stronger. Signs of this are the councils and conferences which are steadily
increasing in number and in power, on the subject of arbitration as the peaceful means of settling
questions growing out of the relations of communities, of states and of nations. Arbitration,
whether between persons or between communities, states and nations, implies a universal and
common law. Peace conferences can, it would seem, have no reasonable purpose and can hope to
accomplish no permanent result, except as they attempt to substitute a universal and common
law, supported by the public sentiment of the civilized world, for human edicts founded on
human will and supported by physical force. The American System is but the establishment of
interstate and international arbitration as the common and usual course of governmental action
instead of as a voluntary or spasmodic manifestation of governmental will.

Only on the assumption of the existence of this universal common law can the relations between
us and our Insular brethren be relations under law, for a written constitution between us and
them is impossible. We realize, as Americans, that somehow these relations must be under law
if they are to be according to the American System, for we know that there is no liberty except
under law, and that the American System has, for its sole object, human liberty.

If we are right, the American people, in rejecting, as they have, the European terms "colony,"
"dependence" and "empire," and the theory which these terms symbolize, have been true to the
American System. In substituting for these terms the American terms, "free state," "just connection"
and "union" and the American theory which these terms symbolize, it is not necessary for us
to alter in the least our established views concerning the Constitution as the supreme law
of the Union. It is only necessary for us to realize that the Constitution is itself but one
application of the great principles of the American System which, as the Supreme Court says,
are "formulated" in it, and to proceed, by a new formulation or by adjudication, to apply these
principles outside the present Union wherever American jurisdiction extends, in the confident
belief that they can be applied universally, and that, wherever applied, they will bring the
blessings of true liberty.

     The Continental Congress. Declaration of Independence of
     July 4, 1776.

     The Constitutional Convention. The Constitution of the
     United States, of September 17, 1787.

     President Washington. Farewell Address, September 17, 1796.

     President Jefferson. First Inaugural Address, March 4, 1801.

     THE EXTENSION OF THE EUROPEAN SYSTEM TO THE WESTERN
     HEMISPHERE DECLARED INCOMPATIBLE WITH THE AMERICAN SYSTEM,
     BY PRESIDENT MONROE.

     "The political system of the Allied Powers is essentially
     different ... from that of America.

     President Monroe Annual Message of December 2, 1823

     THE AMERICAN SYSTEM DECLARED TO HAVE EXTENDED ITSELF TO
     THE WHOLE WESTERN HEMISPHERE, BY PRESIDENT JOHN QUINCY
     ADAMS

     "Among the inquiries which were thought entitled to
     consideration before the determination was taken to accept
     the invitation [to the proposed Congress of the American
     Republics at Panama], was that whether the measure might not
     have a tendency to change the policy, hitherto invariably
     pursued by the United States, of avoiding all entangling
     alliances and all unnecessary political connections.

     Compare our situation and the circumstances of that time
     with those of the present day and what, from the very words
     of Washington then, would be his counsels to his countrymen
     now? Europe has still her set of primary interests, with
     which we have little or a remote relation. Our distant and
     detached situation with reference to Europe remains the
     same. But we were then the only independent nation of this
     hemisphere, and we were surrounded by European colonies,
     with the greater part of which we had no more intercourse
     than with the inhabitants of another planet. These colonies
     have now been transformed into eight independent nations,
     extending to our very borders, seven of them Republics like
     ourselves, with whom we have an immensely growing commercial
     and must have, and have already, important political
     connections, with reference to whom our situation is neither
     distant nor detached, whose political principles and systems
     of government, congenial with our own, must and will have an
     action and counteraction upon us and ours to which we cannot
     be indifferent if we would.

     The rapidity of our growth, and the consequent increase of
     our strength, has more than realized the anticipations of
     this admirable political legacy. Thirty years have nearly
     elapsed since it was written, and in the interval our
     population, our wealth, our territorial extension, our
     power--physical and moral--have nearly trebled. Occasionally the logs become
     jammed in the rivers, and must wait for more water; if this can
     be supplied from a lake above, the difficulty is easily remedied.

     
     
     
     
     In the spring of
     
     1880, a jam occurred at Mexico in Maine. The
     
     logs were piled forty feet above the water and covered an extent of
area as large as an ordinary village. This great jam attracted visitors
from all parts of the country until the spring freshets of the next
year could supply the river with water sufficient to loose them and
bear them on their way.

-----
At the present time, July, 1880, the jam is still there. I saw the
driving and sluicing as I have described it, in May, 1880. It was
very interesting.--S. B. C. S.

     "The acceptance of this invitation, therefore, far from
     conflicting with the counsel or the policy of Washington, is
     directly deducible from and conformable to it. Nor is it
     less conformable to the views of my immediate predecessor,
     as declared in his Annual Message to Congress of the 2d
     December, 1823."

     President John Quincy Adams. Communication to the House of
     Representatives, in answer to their Resolution of Inquiry,
     regarding the proposed Panama Congress, March 15, 1826.

     President Lincoln. Address at the Dedication of the National
     Cemetery at Gettysburg, November 19, 1863.

     THE AMERICAN SYSTEM APPLIED IN THE EXTERNAL JUSTICIARY
     RELATIONS OF THE AMERICAN UNION, BY PRESIDENT MCKINLEY.

     President McKinley--Instructions to the Secretary of State
     regarding the First Philippine Commission, January 20, 1899.

     THE DEFINITION OF THE AMERICAN SYSTEM AS APPLIED BOTH TO
     THE INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL RELATIONS OF THE AMERICAN
     UNION--BY PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT.

     President Roosevelt. First Message, December 3, 1901.

THE QUESTION OF TERMINOLOGY

    Mr. President, Members of the Association and Section, Ladies and
Gentlemen:

You have heard ably discussed certain questions which arise out of the relationship between
the American Union and the annexed Insular regions, viewed in its sociological and economic
aspect. I now ask your attention to a question of immediate interest and importance growing
out of this relationship viewed in its political, that is to say, its legal aspect. This question,
which the Committee on Arrangements has called "The Question of Terminology," is: What are
the correct terms to use in describing the political and legal relationship between the American
Union and its distant annexed regions, assuming that this relationship is to be permanent and
is to be on terms which are just to all parties?

More specifically, the question which I shall discuss will be, whether we, as Americans, ought,
according to American principles, to use, in our political and legal language, the terms "colony,"
"dependence," and "empire," or whether we ought, according to those principles, to substitute
for the term "colony," the term "free state," for "dependence," "just connection," and for
"empire," "union."

It is needless to say that I shall accept the decisions of the Supreme Court of the United
States as final in regard to all the matters adjudicated in them. But the Supreme Court has
jurisdiction only for the purpose of determining the rights of individuals. The political relations
between the Union and the Insular regions, it determines only so far as may be necessary to
ascertain individual rights. Its present doctrine--that the American Union has power over the
Insular regions subject to "fundamental principles formulated in the Constitution," or subject
to "the applicable provisions of the Constitution," protects the civil rights of individuals,
but under it the power of the Union for political purposes remains absolute. The proposition
which I shall offer for your judgment, will, I believe, not only not be in conflict with the
propositions laid down by the Supreme Court, but will give a reason why they are right. It
will, too, I believe, give a reasonable basis for our holding that the power of the American
Union over the Insular regions, while ample for the maintenance of a just and proper permanent
relationship with them under our control, is not absolute even as respects their political rights.

I have said that I shall discuss this question upon American principles. I shall not base myself
on the Constitution of the United States, though I shall try to show the relation of that document
to the question, as I understand it. I shall assume it to be settled by the decisions of the
Supreme Court,--as it seems clearly to be,--that with the exception of the "Territory" clause
of that instrument, it is, and of right ought to be, the Constitution of the thirteen original
States of the American Union and of the other States which they have admitted into their Union,
and of no other States or communities; and that therefore it does not extend of its own force
outside the American Union in any constitutional or legal sense, but only in a metaphorical
sense--this being as I understand it, the meaning of the Court when they hold, as they do,
that, though the "Territory clause" is of present and universal significance as respects all
the regions annexed to the Union, yet, with this exception, only "the applicable provisions
of the Constitution" or "the fundamental principles formulated in the Constitution" are in
force in the annexed regions. "Extensions," so-called, of the Constitution by Act of Congress,
are of course mere Acts of Congress, and whether such metaphorical "extensions" are permanent
will depend upon the terms and conditions of the "extension."

But though I shall not base myself on the Constitution of the United States, I shall nevertheless
base myself on a great American Document, which preceded the Constitution as a statement of
American principles, and which is so far from being inconsistent with it that the Democratic
party, in its platform of 1900, called it "the Spirit of the Constitution"--I refer to the
Declaration of Independence. It is the American principles set forth in that document which
I shall try to discover. If I shall be adjudged to have rightly interpreted that instrument,
it will follow that we ought to substitute, in our political and legal language, for the term
"colony," the term "free state," for "dependence," "just connection," and for "empire," "union."
In making such substitution, however, it will be necessary to give to the terms "free state"
and "union," a scientific meaning which will differ from that which they now have in the popular
mind, but which will, I believe, be the same as was given to these terms by the Revolutionary
statesmen.

I shall not allow myself to be embarrassed by the fact that in my first published writing I
used the terms "colony," "dependence" and "empire;" for at the same time that I used these
terms, I based myself on principles which were those of free statehood, just connection and
union, to which I adhere to this day.

Taking the Declaration of Independence, therefore, as the exposition of the fundamental principles
on which all American political theory is based, and to which all American policy must conform,
let me state briefly the general meaning and purpose of this instrument, as I understand it.

As a result of the discussion for twelve years preceding the Declaration, the doctrine of the
extension of the British Constitution to the American Colonies, which from their situation,
could never be represented on equal terms in Parliament, was found to be useless for the protection
of American rights, political or civil; and the doctrine that their rights were dependent on
the Colonial Charters was found to be inadequate, for these Charters, while protecting the
civil rights of the Americans to some extent, proceeded on the theory that they held all their
political rights at the will or whim of Great Britain. The Americans felt and knew that they
were entitled to political, as well as civil rights, and they all firmly believed that each
so-called "colony" was a free state and subject to no external control beyond what was necessary
to preserve their relationship with Great Britain on just terms to all the parties. The only
question which the Americans discussed, as soon as they comprehended the whole situation, was,
Why was each so-called "colony" a free state and why had it always been such? The Declaration
of Independence, as I understand it, gave to the world their solution of this problem. Their
answer, as I understand it, was, that the American Colonies were and always had been free states,
because their relations with the State of Great Britain were not under the British Constitution
and were not wholly under the Colonial Charters, but were under a supreme and universal common
law, which governs the relations between men, communities, bodies corporate, states and nations,
and which they called in the Declaration "the Law of Nature and of Nature's God," according
to which every community on the earth's surface, within reasonable limits for the formation
and execution of a just public sentiment, is entitled to be a free state,--that is, to be free
from external control, in executing its just public sentiment, except so far as may be necessary
to enable it to conform to the terms of its just connections with other free states. This doctrine
of free statehood as a universal right is, as I understand it, the central idea of the Declaration.

Assuming this to be the central idea, let us see how this idea is reached; and for that purpose,
let us notice the exact language of the Declaration.

The "causes of separation" are prefaced by a number of propositions determining the nature
of the "political bands" by which one people may be "connected with" another. These propositions
are all rules of human conduct, and are therefore principles of law, though they are called
"self-evident truths."

The conception of the universal right of free statehood is reached, in the Declaration, through
a series of three propositions, each stated to be self-evident, and yet all forming a sequence.
The basal proposition is, that "all men are created equal." Abraham Lincoln, on the other hand,
in his speech at Gettysburg, at the most solemn and stirring moment in the country's history,
declared that the proposition that all men are created equal was the foundation-idea of the
nation, to which it was dedicated by the Fathers.

The doctrine of equality arising from the common creation of all men as the spiritual offspring
of a common Creator, was the doctrine of the Reformation in its broadest form, as declared
by Penn. Taking into consideration the religious character of the Americans, as well as the
learning and acumen of that most remarkable body of men who constituted the Continental Congress,
it seems not only not improbable, but probable, and indeed necessary to conclude, that the
proposition that "all men are created equal" was intended to be the epitome of the doctrine
of the Reformation, as that doctrine was broadened by the influence of Penn and his followers.
As the Governments of Europe were at that time acting on the political philosophy of feudalism
and mediaevalism, which in its last analysis was based on the proposition that all men are
created unequal, or that some are created equal and some unequal, the Declaration, if it be
true that it based the American political philosophy upon the broadest doctrine of the Reformation,
announced an American System as opposed to the European System.

From the doctrine of equality arising from the common creation of all men by a personal Creator
to whom all were equally related, it is declared by the Declaration to follow as a 'self-evident'
truth that there are certain rights, which are attached to all men by endowment of the Creator
as being the correlative of the unalienable needs of all men, and which inasmuch as they arise
from the universal limitations which the Creator has imposed, are as unalienable as the needs
themselves. These unalienable rights are declared to be the rights of life, liberty and the
pursuit of happiness.

The doctrine of unalienable rights, necessarily supposes a universal law, for the conception
of law must precede the conception of right. This law, as conceived of by the Declaration is
a common and universal law. In the first part of the preamble this universal common law is
spoken of as "the law of Nature and of Nature's God." Inasmuch as the rights claimed are those
which depend for their existence upon revelation as well as reason, it is evident that this
common and universal law to which the Declaration appeals, is the "law of nature and of nations,"
of the scholars of the Reformation, which was conceived of as based on revelation and reason,
and as governing every relationship of men, of bodies corporate, of communities, of states
and of nations. Of course all this was very foolish, and very wrong; yet in our days
of stately conventionality, when perfect impassibility is deemed
the highest style of breeding, there is something refreshing in reading
of such animated scenes in high life.

The crowning act of hostility to Handel, was when the Earl of Middlesex
himself assumed the profession of manager of Italian operas, and engaged
the king's theatre, with a new composer, and a new company.

Handel had, for some time, been meditating a withdrawal from the Opera,
in order to devote himself exclusively to the composition of sacred
music, of which he had already produced several fine specimens.

He was wont to say, that this was an occupation 'better suited to the
circumstances of a man advancing in years, than that of adapting
music to such vain and trivial words as the musical drama generally
consists of.' The truth was, he had discovered his forte.

But the tide of fashionable feeling ran so strongly against him, that
even the performance of the oratorios of Saul and Israel in Egypt
scarcely paid expenses.

Unwilling to submit his forthcoming Messiah also to the caprices of
fashion, and the malignity of party, he wisely embraced an opportunity which
was opened to him of bringing out this great work in Dublin, under
singularly favourable auspices, and crossed the Channel in November
1741.

Those who are acquainted with the Irish metropolis--not merely with the
handsome streets and squares eastward, which are now the abodes
of gentility, but with the dirty thoroughfares about the cathedrals--have
observed the large houses which some of them contain, now let in
single rooms to a wretched population, and need scarcely be told that
they were once the abodes of wealth and luxury.

Fishamble Street, in this quarter of the town, is one of the oldest
streets in Dublin. 'Under the eastern gable of the ancient cathedral of
Christ's Church, separated and hidden from it by a row of houses,
it winds its crooked course down the hill from Castle Street to the
Liffey, as forlorn and neglected as other old streets in its vicinity.

A number of trunkmakers' shops give it an aspect somewhat peculiar;
miserable alleys open from it on the right and left; a barber's pole
or two overhang the footway; and huxters' shops are frequent, with
their wonted array of articles more useful than ornamental.
The particular proposition which bears upon the right of free statehood is evidently the one
which declares that, "to secure these [unalienable] rights [of individuals], governments are
instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed." The intermediate
propositions, as the result of which the universal right of free statehood follows from this
proposition, are, it would seem, these: If government is the doing of justice according to
public sentiment, government is the expression and application of a spiritually and intellectually
educated public sentiment, since, although a rudimentary knowledge of what is just is implanted
in every human being, a full knowledge of what is just comes only after a course of spiritual
and intellectual education. Hence it follows that the forms and methods of government should
be such as are adapted to such spiritual and intellectual education. Education takes place
by direct personal contact, and can be best accomplished only through the establishment of
permanent groups of individuals who are all under the same conditions. The formation and expression
of a just public sentiment, therefore, requires the establishment of permanent groups of persons,
more or less free from any external control which interferes with their rightful action, under
a leadership which makes for their spiritual and intellectual education in justice. Such permanent
groups within territorial limits of suitable size for developing and expressing a just public
sentiment, are free states. Territorial divisions of persons set apart for the purpose of convenience
in determining the local public sentiment, regardless of its justness or unjustness, are not
states, but are mere voting districts. Just public sentiment, for its expression and application,
requires the existence of many small free states, disconnected to the extent necessary to enable
each to be free from all improper external control in educating itself in the ways of justice;
mere public sentiment, for its expression and application, requires only the existence of a
few great states divided into voting districts, each district being under the control of the
Central Government, which is to it an external control. Just public sentiment, as the basis
of government, is a basis which makes government a mighty instrument for spirituality and growth;
mere public sentiment, regardless of its justness or unjustness, as the basis of government,
is a basis which makes government a mighty instrument for brutality and deterioration. Human
equality, unalienable rights, government according to just public sentiment, and free statehood,
are inevitably and forever linked together as reciprocal cause and effect.

So complete and universal are the principles of government by just public sentiment and of
free statehood that, according to the Declaration, even when all the people of a free state
are meeting together to alter or abolish a form of government which has become destructive
of the ends of its institution, as it is declared they may rightfully do, their right to form
a new government is not absolute so that they can rightfully do whatever the majority wills,
but is limited by this universal common law, so that they can rightfully institute only a new
form of government whose foundation principles and mode of organization are such "as to them
shall seem most likely to effect their safety and happiness"--that is, to secure the unalienable
rights of individuals to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.

The declaration of the universal right of free statehood is accompanied, in the Declaration,
by the claim that the Colonies, as free states, had always been in political "connection" with
the State of Great Britain. The concluding part of the Declaration reads:

     "We, therefore,... declare that these United Colonies are,
     and of right ought to be, free and independent states,...
     and that all political connection between them and the State
     of Great Britain is, and ought to be, totally dissolved."

In this it was necessarily implied that the Colonies had always been free states or free and
independent states, and that, by the Declaration, at most their right of independent statehood
came into existence; that they had theretofore at all times been in political connection, either
as free states under the law of nature and of nations, or as free and independent states by
implied treaty, with the free and independent State of Great Britain; that the dissolution
of the connection had not come about by an act of secession on their part, but was due to the
violation, by the State of Great Britain, either of the law of nature and of nations, or of
the implied treaty on which the political connection was based.

The term "connection" was an apt term to express a relationship of equality and dignity. "Connection"
implies two things, considered as units distinct from one another, which are bound together
by a connecting medium. Just connection implies free statehood in all the communities connected.
Union is a form of connection in which the connected free states are consolidated into a unity
for the common purposes, though separate for local purposes. Merger is the fusion of two or
more free states into a single unitary state. Connection between free states may be through
a legislative medium, or through a justiciary medium, or through an executive medium. The connecting
medium may be a person, a body corporate, or a state. States connected through a legislative
medium, whether a person, a body corporate or a state, and whether wholly external to the states
connected or to some extent internal to them, whose legislative powers are unlimited or which
determines the limits of its own legislative powers, are "dependent" upon or "subject" to the
will of the legislative medium. Such states are "dependencies," "dominions," "subject-states,"
or more accurately "slave-states,"--or more accurately still, not states at all, but mere aggregations
of slave-individuals. States connected through a legislative medium, whether a person, a body
corporate or a state, and whether wholly external to the states connected or in part internal
to them, whose legislative powers are granted by the states and which has only such legislative
powers as are granted, are in a condition of limited dependence, dominion, and subjection;
but their relationship is by their voluntary act and they may, and by the terms of the grant
always do to some extent control the legislative will to which they are subject and on which
they are dependent. Where states are connected or united through a justiciary medium, whether
that justiciary medium is a person, a body corporate, or a state, all the states are free states,
their relationships being governed by law. Where states are connected through an executive
medium, whether that executive medium is a person, a body corporate, or a state, all the states
are free and independent states, and each acts according to its will. All connections in which
the legislative medium,--whether a person, a body corporate or a state, and whether wholly
external to the states connected, or to some extent internal to the states connected,--has
unlimited legislative powers or determines the limits of its own legislative powers, are fictitious
connections, the relationship being really one which implies "empire" or "dominion" on one
side, and "subjection" or "dependence" on the other. Such connections are properly called "empires"
or "dominions." So also all connections in which the only connecting medium is a common executive,
whether a person, a body corporate or a state, are fictitious connections, the relationship
being one of "permanent alliance" or "confederation" between independent states. Such connections
are properly called "alliances" or "confederations." The only true connections are those in
which there is a legislative medium, whether a person, a body corporate or a state, whose legislative
powers are limited, by agreement of the connected states, to the common purposes, and those
in which there is a justiciary medium, whether a person, a body corporate, or a state, which
recognizes its powers as limited to the common purposes by the law of nature and of nations,
and which ascertains and applies this law, incidentally adjudicating, according to this law,
the limits of its own jurisdiction. Just connections tend to become unions, it being found
in practice necessary, for the preservation of the connection in due order, that the power
of limited legislation for the common purposes and the power of adjudicating and applying the
law for the common purposes should extend not only to the states, but to all individuals throughout
the states.

Thus "dependence," as a fictitious and vicious form of connection, is, it would appear, forever
opposed to "connection" of a just and proper kind. If it were attempted to sum up the issue
of the American Revolution in an epigram, would not that epigram be: "'Colony,' or 'Free State?'
'Dependence,' or 'Just Connection?' 'Empire,' or 'Union?'"

According to the opinion of the Revolutionary statesmen, as it would seem, a universal right
of free statehood does not imply a universal right of self-government. Statehood and self-government
are two different and distinct conceptions. The Americans claimed the right of free statehood
as a part of the universal rights of man, but they claimed the right of self-government because
they were Englishmen trained by generations of experience in the art of self-government and
so capable of exercising the art. A state is not less or more a free state because it has self-government.
It is a free state when its just public sentiment is to any extent ascertained and executed
by its government,--however that government may be instituted,--free from the control of any
external power. It does not prevent a region from being a free state that its government is
wholly or partly appointed by an external power, if that government is free from external control
in ascertaining and executing the just local sentiment to any extent. Nor does it interfere
with the right of free statehood when an external power stands by merely to see that the local
government ascertains and executes the just local sentiment to a proper extent. The external
power in that case is upholding the free statehood of the region. It stands as surety for the
continuance of free statehood.

The right of self-government, according to this view, is a conditional universal right of free
states. When a community, inhabiting a region of such territorial extent that it is not too
large to make it possible for a just public sentiment concerning its affairs to be developed
and executed, and not so small as to make it inconvenient that it should be in any respect
free from external control, is of such moral and intellectual capacity that it can form and
execute a just public sentiment concerning its internal affairs and its relations with other
communities, states and nations, it has not only the right of free statehood,--that is, of
political personality,--which is of universal right, but also the right of self-government.
The right of such a free state to self-government is complete if there be no just political
connection or union between it and other free states, or partial, if such a just connection
or union exists, being limited, in this latter case, to the extent necessary for the preservation,
in due order, of the connection or union.

Independence was regarded apparently also, by the Declaration, when it declared the Colonies
to be "free and independent states," to be a right superadded to the right of free statehood
in some cases, and therefore to be a conditional universal right of free states--that is, a
right universally existing where the conditions necessary to independence--great physical strength,
and great moral and intellectual ability--exist.

The Colonies regarded themselves as free states in such a just and rightful connection with
the free and independent State of Great Britain as to form with it a union. From this it followed,
inasmuch as this connection and union was conceived of as existing under a universal common
law, that the State of Great Britain, through its Government, was the justiciary medium which
connected the free states of that which they conceived of as the British-American Union, and
as such applied the principles of this universal common law for preserving and maintaining
in due order the connection and union. There, therefore, resulted the conception of Great Britain
as what may perhaps be called "the Justiciar State" of this British-American Union. If we were
to use the exact language of the Revolution, it would probably be more proper to speak of Great
Britain as "the Superintending State" of the British-American Union, as the power of Great
Britain over the Colonies was generally spoken of by the Americans as "the superintending power."
Lord Chatham used this expression in his famous bill introduced in the House of Lords. The
expression "Justiciar State," however, seems to be more scientifically correct. A Justiciar
was an official who exercised the power of government in a judicial manner. His power was neither
strictly legislative, nor strictly executive, nor strictly judicial, but was complex, being
compounded of all three powers, so that his executive action, taken after judicially ascertaining
the facts in each case and applying to them just principles of law, resulted in action having
the force of legislation.

The Revolutionary statesmen have left a very considerable literature showing their views concerning
the nature of the right of a state to be the Justiciar State of a Union of States, and concerning
the powers which a Justiciar State may rightfully exercise.

Arguing on the same basis as that adopted by them regarding the right of self-government and
independence, it appears that they considered the right of a state to act as Justiciar for
other states to be a right superadded to the right of self-government and independence in some
cases--that is, that justiciarship is a conditional universal right of self-governing and independent
states, the conditions necessary to its existence being great physical strength, a judicial
character and a capacity for leadership.

The power exercised by a Justiciar State in a Justiciary Union, they recognized as being neither
strictly legislative, nor strictly executive, nor strictly judicial, but a power compounded
of all these three powers. They considered that it was to be exercised for the common purposes
after investigation by judicial methods; that the just public sentiment of the free states
connected and united with the Justiciar State was to be considered by it in the determination
of the common affairs; and that the action of the Justiciar State was to result, after proper
hearing of the free states and all parties concerned, in dispositions and regulations made
according to just principles of law, which were to have the force of supreme law in each of
the connected and united free states respectively. This kind of power, which the Fathers called
"the superintending power" or "the disposing power" under the law of nature and of nations,
and which may be called, using an expression now coming into use, "the power of final decision,"
or more briefly "the justiciary power," being neither legislative, executive nor judicial,
but more nearly executive than legislative, the more conservative among them considered might
be exercised, consistently with the principles of the law of nature and of nations, either
by the Legislative Assembly of the Justiciar State or by its Chief Executive, advised by properly
constituted Administrative Tribunals or Councils; the action of the Legislative Assembly superseding
that of the Chief Executive in so far as they might be inconsistent with each other. This right
of both the Legislative Assembly and of the Chief Executive, properly advised, to exercise
the powers of the Justiciar State--the former having supreme, and the latter superior justiciary
power,--under the law of nature and of nations, is, I believe, also recognized by our Constitution,
as I have elsewhere attempted to show.

Of course there must be conditions of transition where the relations between free states which
would normally be in union, or between detached portions of what would normally be a unitary
state, temporarily assume a form which is partly one of union or merger, and partly of dependency.
The justification of all such forms of relationship must, it would seem, be found in the fundamental
right which every independent state, whether a Justiciar state or not, has to the preservation
of its existence and its leadership or judgeship--that is, in the right of self-preservation,
which, when necessary to be invoked, overrules all other rights. On this theory must, it would
seem, be explained the relations between the American Union and its Territories, between Germany
and Alsace-Lorraine, and between England and Ireland. On this theory of self-preservation,
also, must, it would seem, be explained the permanent relationship of dependency which exists
between the District of Columbia and the American Union--such dependency being necessary to
the preservation of the life of the Union.

Out of the conception of a universal common law of nature and of nations which governs all
human acts and relationships,--and therefore all the acts and relationships of states and nations
as well as of men, bodies corporate and communities,--there has arisen and at the present time
exists, a science of the universal and common law of the state, called the Science of the Law
of the State, which concerns itself with the internal relations of a state to its people, its
bodies corporate and its communities, and a science of the universal and common law of independent
states, called the Science of International Law, which concerns itself with the occasional
and temporary relations of independent states. The great field of law which concerns the permanent
relations of free states is not yet covered by a recognized science. Must there not therefore
emerge from this conception of a universal and common law of nature and of nations, a third
science of law, covering this field, which will take as its basal proposition the doctrine
that free statehood is the normal and rightful condition of all communities on the earth's
surface within suitable limits for the formation of a just public sentiment, and which will
concern itself with the permanent relations between free states? As such permanent relations
must always be by just connection, either in its simple form or in the form of union, may not
such a science of law, standing between the science of the Law of the State and the science
of International Law, be called the science of the Law of Connections and Unions of Free States?

Taking the whole Declaration together, and reading it in the light of the political literature
which was put forth on both sides of the water between the years 1764 and 1776, it seems to
be necessary to conclude that the views of the most conservative of the American statesmen
of the period concerning the connection between Great Britain and the Colonies were these:

They considered, as I interpret their language, that the connection between free and independent
State of Great Britain, and the American Colonies, as free states, had existed and of right
ought to have existed, according to the principles of the law of nature and of nations--that
law being based on principles opposed to the principles applied by the governments of Europe,
and being thus what may be called a law of nature and of nations according to the American
System. Had they used a more definite and scientific phraseology, it seems that their view
would best be expressed by saying that they considered that the relationship between Great
Britain and the Colonies had always existed according to the principles of the Law of Connections
and Unions of Free States. They accordingly admitted, as I understand them, that Great Britain,
as a free and independent state, had power, as Justiciar, over the American Free States, for
the common purposes of the whole Union, to finally decide, by dispositions, ordinances and
regulations having the force of supreme law, made through its Government after a judicial hearing
in each case for the investigation of facts and the application to them of the principles of
the Law of Connections and Unions of Free States, upon all questions of common interest arising
out of the connection and union; and that each of the American Free States had power, through
its Legislature, to legislate according to the just public sentiment in each, and the right
to have its local laws executed by its Executive and interpreted and applied by its Courts,
free from all control by the State of Great Britain, except what was necessary to protect and
preserve the Union.

In this view, the actions of the Americans show the evolution of a continuous theory and policy,
and the application of a single American system of principles,--a system which was based upon
free statehood, just connection and union. The British-American Union of 1763 was a Union of
States under the State of Great Britain as Justiciar, that State having power to dispose of
and make all rules and regulations respecting the connected and united free states, needful
to protect and preserve the connection and union, according to the principles of the Law of
Connections and Unions. The dissolution of this Union, caused by the violation by the State
of Great Britain of its duties as Justiciar State, gave a great impetus to the extreme states-rights
party, and the next connection formed,--that of 1778 under the Articles of Confederation,--was
not a Union, the Common Government (the Congress) being merely a Chief Executive. Such a connection
proving to be so slight as to be little more than a fiction, they formed, under the Constitution
of 1787, the only other kind of a union which appears to be practicable, namely, a union under
a common government which was a Chief Legislature for all the connected and United States by
their express grant, and whose powers were expressly limited, by limitation in the grant, to
the common purposes of the whole connection and union of free states.

If the Constitution, in defining what are the common purposes of the Union and what the local
purposes of the States of the Union, is declaratory of the principles of the Law of Connections
and Unions of Free States, as it seems not unreasonable to hold, the Limited Legislative Union
formed under the Constitution may perhaps be considered, in view of the supremacy of the Judiciary,
as Guardians of the Constitution, over the Limited Legislature, as a species of Justiciary Union. 

Catharine lost no time in addressing Suwarrow:

"Your commander, Marshal
Boutourlin, ought to put you under arrest, to punish military insubordination.

As your sovereign, I reserve
to myself the pleasure of rewarding a faithful subject, who by a
splendid action has well served his country."

The Order of St. Alexander accompanied this gracious letter.

Never was commander more loved by his soldiers than Suwarrow.

Like Napoleon, he shared their hardships and privations as well as their dangers. He would often pass
the cold winter nights in their bivouac and partake of their humble fare. In every difficulty he kept up
their spirits by his alacrity and cheerfulness. However tinctured with superstition, he had deep devotional
feelings; and it is stated that he never went to battle without offering
up a prayer, and that it was his first and last occupation every
day.

Often when provisions were failing he would order a fast to be observed by the troops, as a token of
humiliation for their sins: and he always set the example of the prescribed abstinence himself.
The noble self-denial which made him scorn any care for himself which was beyond the reach of the common
soldiers, so thoroughly identified him with them, that all their tender sympathies were with
him, as much as their respect and veneration. He was never seen on
the long and heavy marches of his infantry but on foot by their side;
and in every advance of his cavalry he was at their head on horseback.
 Councils suitable for advising the local Governors, when they, on
behalf of the American Union as Justiciar State, exercise their inferior justiciary powers,
already exist. Of such a Greater American Union, the present American Union would be the Supreme
Justiciary Head, with power to finally determine the questions arising out of the relationship,
not by edict founded on will and force, but by decision carefully made in each case after ascertaining
the facts in each case and applying to them the principles of the Law of Connections and Unions
properly applicable to them.

Is not this theory the true via media? The theory of the automatic extension of the constitution
of a state over its annexed insular, transmarine and transterranean regions which from their
local or other circumstances can never equally participate in the institution and operation
of its government, in some cases protects individual rights, but it takes no account of the
right of free statehood, which is the prime instrumentality for securing these rights. The
theory of a power over these regions not regulated by a supreme law, is a theory of absolute
power over both individuals and communities in these regions,--a theory which implies an absence
of all rights. The theory of a power over these regions based on the principles of the Law
of Connections and Unions, granting that this law is itself based on the right of human equality,
protects the rights of persons, of communities, of states and of nations. On this theory the
"Territory Clause" of the Constitution recognizes the Law of Connections and Unions as determining
the relationship between the American Union and the Insular regions--"needful" rules and regulations
being those which are adapted to accomplish the end desired and which are consistent with the
principles of the Law of Connections and Unions as declared in the Declaration of Independence.
On this theory, the doctrine of the Supreme Court that the civil rights of individuals in cases
growing out of our relations with our Insular brethren are protected by "the fundamental principles
formulated in the Constitution," or by "the applicable provisions of the Constitution," is
translated into the doctrine that these individual and civil rights are protected by the principles
of the Law of Connections and Unions of Free States, as these principles are formulated in
the Constitution and as they are disclosed by an examination of the applicable provisions of
the Constitution, and that not only are these civil rights protected by this law, but also
the political rights of all the parties to the relationship. On this theory, the jurisdiction
of the Supreme Court continues to be exactly the same as at present. The necessary Advisory
Councils for ascertaining the just political relations between the American Union and the Insular
regions and for determining the political rights growing out of that relationship, would not
in the least interfere with the Supreme Court in the exercise of its functions. They would
supplement that Court, which now protects the civil rights of all concerned through its adjudications
in civil cases, by assisting the Congress and the President to protect and preserve the political
rights of all concerned through dispositions and needful rules and regulations in political cases.

By adopting this theory of the Reformation and the American Revolution, may not the American
System extend indefinitely without danger to America herself? There would be no domination,
no subjection. The same Law of Connections and Unions would extend over and govern throughout
the whole Greater American Union. This Greater American Justiciary Union would be but a logical
application of the principles underlying the American Legislative, Executive, and Judicial
Union formed by the Constitution of the United States.

It would not be the Constitution which would follow the flag into the regions which America
has annexed to herself, but the Law of Connections and Unions, which is a part of the Law of
Nature and of Nations according to the American System. 

The sentiment that brings us here to-day is one of the noblest that can stir and thrill the human heart.
It has crowned and made glorious the high places of all civilized
nations with the grandest and most enduring works of art, designed
to illustrate the characters and perpetuate the memories of great
public men.

It is the sentiment, which from year to year adorns with fragrant
and beautiful flowers the graves of our loyal, brave, and patriotic
soldiers who fell in defense of the Union and Liberty.

It is the sentiment of gratitude and appreciation, which often, in
the presence of many who hear me, has filled yonder heights of Arlington
with the eloquence of eulogy and the sublime enthusiasm of poetry
and song; a sentiment which can never die while the Republic lives.

       *       *       *       *       *

