Man Overboard!

    COPYRIGHT, 1903,
    BY THE MACMILLAN COMPANY.                               54

    "One of his wet, shiny arms was round
    Mamie's waist"                                     92

MAN OVERBOARD

Yes--I have heard "Man overboard!" a good many times since I was a boy, and once or twice I
have seen the man go. There are more men lost in that way than passengers on ocean steamers
ever learn of. I have stood looking over the rail on a dark night, when there was a step beside
me, and something flew past my head like a big black bat--and then there was a splash! Stokers
often go like that. Here! (To Fascinating Attendant as politely as possible). Can't you go round
with it--

Few
Ancient Playgoers. Sssh! Sssh!

Second Attendant (to distant Customer).

I'll bring it. 'Scuse me.
[Retraces her fascinating steps along front row. Of course, any officer who
respects himself will do what he can to pick a man up, if the weather is not so heavy that
he would have to risk his ship; but I don't think I remember seeing a man come back when he
was once fairly gone more than two or three times in all my life, though we have often picked
up the life-buoy, and sometimes the fellow's cap. Stokers and passengers jump over; I never
knew a sailor to do that, drunk or sober. Yes, they say it has happened on hard ships, but
I never knew a case myself. Once in a long time a man is fished out when it is just too late,
and dies in the boat before you can get him aboard, and--well, I don't know that I ever told
that story since it happened--I knew a fellow who went over, and came back dead. I didn't see
him after he came back; only one of us did, but we all knew he was there.

No, I am not giving you "sharks." There isn't a shark in this story, and I don't know that
I would tell it at all if we weren't alone, just you and I. But you and I have seen things
in various parts, and maybe you will understand. Anyhow, you know that I am telling what I
know about, and nothing else; and it has been on my mind to tell you ever since it happened,
only there hasn't been a chance.

It's a long story, and it took some time to happen; and it began a good many years ago, in
October, as well as I can remember. I was mate then; I passed the local Marine Board for master
about three years later. She was the Helen B. Jackson, of New York, with lumber for the West
Indies, four-masted schooner, Captain Hackstaff. She was an old-fashioned one, even then--no
steam donkey, and all to do by hand. There were still sailors in the coasting trade in those
days, you remember. She wasn't a hard ship, for the old man was better than most of them, though
he kept to himself and had a face like a monkey-wrench. We were thirteen, all told, in the
ship's company; and some of them afterwards thought that might have had something to do with
it, but I had all that nonsense knocked out of me when I was a boy. I don't mean to say that
I like to go to sea on a Friday, but I have gone to sea on a Friday, and nothing has happened;
and twice before that we have been thirteen, because one of the hands didn't turn up at the
last minute, and nothing ever happened either--nothing worse than the loss of a light spar
or two, or a little canvas. Whenever I have been wrecked, we had sailed as cheerily as you
please--no thirteens, no Fridays, no dead men in the hold. I believe it generally happens that way.

I dare say you remember those two Benton boys that were so much alike? It is no wonder, for
they were twin brothers. They shipped with us as boys on the old Boston Belle, when you were
mate and I was before the mast. I never was quite sure which was which of those two, even then;
and when they both had beards it was harder than ever to tell them apart. One was Jim, and
the other was Jack; James Benton and John Benton. The only difference I ever could see was,
that one seemed to be rather more cheerful and inclined to talk than the other; but one couldn't
even be sure of that. Perhaps they had moods. Anyhow, there was one of them that used to whistle
when he was alone. He only knew one tune, and that was "Nancy Lee," and the other didn't know
any tune at all; but I may be mistaken about that, too. Perhaps they both knew it.

Well, those two Benton boys turned up on board the Helen B. Jackson. They had been on half
a dozen ships since the Boston Belle, and they had grown up and were good seamen. They had
reddish beards and bright blue eyes and freckled faces; and they were quiet fellows, good workmen
on rigging, pretty willing, and both good men at the wheel. They managed to be in the same
watch--it was the port watch on the Helen B., and that was mine, and I had great confidence
in them both. If there was any job aloft that needed two hands, they were always the first
to jump into the rigging; but that doesn't often happen on a fore-and-aft schooner. If it breezed
up, and the jibtopsail was to be taken in, they never minded a wetting, and they would be out
at the bowsprit end before there was a hand at the downhaul. The men liked them for that, and
because they didn't blow about what they could do. I remember one day in a reefing job, the
downhaul parted and came down on deck from the peak of the spanker. When the weather moderated,
and we shook the reefs out, the downhaul was forgotten until we happened to think we might
soon need it again. There was some sea on, and the boom was off and the gaff was slamming.
One of those Benton boys was at the wheel, and before I knew what he was doing, the other was
out on the gaff with the end of the new downhaul, trying to reeve it through its block. The
one who was steering watched him, and got as white as cheese. The other one was swinging about
on the gaff end, and every time she rolled to leeward he brought up with a jerk that would
have sent anything but a monkey flying into space. But he didn't leave it until he had rove
the new rope, and he got back all right. I think it was Jack at the wheel; the one that seemed
more cheerful, the one that whistled "Nancy Lee." He had rather have been doing the job himself
than watch his brother do it, and he had a scared look; but he kept her as steady as he could
in the swell, and he drew a long breath when Jim had worked his way back to the peak-halliard
block, and had something to hold on to. I think it was Jim.

They had good togs, too, and they were neat and clean men in the forecastle. I knew they had
nobody belonging to them ashore,--no mother, no sisters, and no wives; but somehow they both
looked as if a woman overhauled them now and then. I remember that they had one ditty bag between
them, and they had a woman's thimble in it. One of the men said something about it to them,
and they looked at each other; and one smiled, but the other didn't. Most of their clothes
were alike, but they had one red guernsey between them. For some time I used to think it was
always the same one that wore it, and I thought that might be a way to tell them apart. But
then I heard one asking the other for it, and saying that the other had worn it last. So that
was no sign either. The cook was a West Indiaman, called James Lawley; his father had been
hanged for putting lights in cocoanut trees where they didn't belong. But he was a good cook,
and knew his business; and it wasn't soup-and-bully and dog's-body every Sunday. That's what
I meant to say. On Sunday the cook called both those boys Jim, and on week-days he called them
Jack. He used to say he must be right sometimes if he did that, because even the hands on a
painted clock point right twice a day.

What started me to trying for some way of telling the Bentons apart was this. I heard them
talking about a girl. It was at night, in our watch, and the wind had headed us off a little
rather suddenly, and when we had flattened in the jibs, we clewed down the topsails, while
the two Benton boys got the spanker sheet aft. One of them was at the helm. I coiled down the
mizzen-topsail downhaul myself, and was going aft to see how she headed up, when I stopped
to look at a light, and leaned against the deck-house. While I was standing there I heard the
two boys talking. It sounded as if they had talked of the same thing before, and as far as
I could tell, the voice I heard first belonged to the one who wasn't quite so cheerful as the
other,--the one who was Jim when one knew which he was.

"Does Mamie know?" Jim asked.

"Not yet," Jack answered quietly. He was at the wheel. "I mean to tell her next time we get home."

"All right."

That was all I heard, because I didn't care to stand there listening while they were talking
about their own affairs; so I went aft to look into the binnacle, and I told the one at the
wheel to keep her so as long as she had way on her, for I thought the wind would back up again
before long, and there was land to leeward. When he answered, his voice, somehow, didn't sound
like the cheerful one. Perhaps his brother had relieved the wheel while they had been speaking,
but what I had heard set me wondering which of them it was that had a girl at home. There's
lots of time for wondering on a schooner in fair weather.

After that I thought I noticed that the two brothers were more silent when they were together.
Perhaps they guessed that I had overheard something that night, and kept quiet when I was about.
Some men would have amused themselves by trying to chaff them separately about the girl at
home, and I suppose whichever one it was would have let the cat out of the bag if I had done
that. But, somehow, I didn't like to. Yes, I was thinking of getting married myself at that
time, so I had a sort of fellow-feeling for whichever one it was, that made me not want to
chaff him.

They didn't talk much, it seemed to me; but in fair weather, when there was nothing to do at
night, and one was steering, the other was everlastingly hanging round as if he were waiting
to relieve the wheel, though he might have been enjoying a quiet nap for all I cared in such
weather. Or else, when one was taking his turn at the lookout, the other would be sitting on
an anchor beside him. One kept near the other, at night more than in the daytime. I noticed
that. They were fond of sitting on that anchor, and they generally tucked away their pipes
under it, for the Helen B. was a dry boat in most weather, and like most fore-and-afters was
better on a wind than going free. With a beam sea we sometimes shipped a little water aft.
We were by the stern, anyhow, on that voyage, and that is one reason why we lost the man.

We fell in with a southerly gale, south-east at first; and then the barometer began to fall
while you could watch it, and a long swell began to come up from the south'ard. A couple of
months earlier we might have been in for a cyclone, but it's "October all over" in those waters,
as you know better than I. It was just going to blow, and then it was going to rain, that was
all; and we had plenty of time to make everything snug before it breezed up much. It blew harder
after sunset, and by the time it was quite dark it was a full gale. We had shortened sail for
it, but as we were by the stern we were carrying the spanker close reefed instead of the storm
trysail. She steered better so, as long as we didn't have to heave to. I had the first watch
with the Benton boys, and we had not been on deck an hour when a child might have seen that
the weather meant business.

The old man came up on deck and looked round, and in less than a minute he told us to give
her the trysail. That meant heaving to, and I was glad of it; for though the Helen B. was a
good vessel enough, she wasn't a new ship by a long way, and it did her no good to drive her
in that weather. I asked whether I should call all hands, but just then the cook came aft,
and the old man said he thought we could manage the job without waking the sleepers, and the
trysail was handy on deck already, for we hadn't been expecting anything better. We were all
in oilskins, of course, and the night was as black as a coal mine, with only a ray of light
from the slit in the binnacle shield, and you couldn't tell one man from another except by
his voice. The old man took the wheel; we got the boom amidships, and he jammed her into the
wind until she had hardly any way. It was blowing now, and it was all that I and two others
could do to get in the slack of the downhaul, while the others lowered away at the peak and
throat, and we had our hands full to get a couple of turns round the wet sail. It's all child's
play on a fore-and-after compared with reefing topsails in anything like weather, but the gear
of a schooner sometimes does unhandy things that you don't expect, and those everlasting long
halliards get foul of everything if they get adrift. I remember thinking how unhandy that particular
job was. Somebody unhooked the throat-halliard block, and thought he had hooked it into the
head-cringle of the trysail, and sang out to hoist away, but he had missed it in the dark,
and the heavy block went flying into the lee rigging, and nearly killed him when it swung back
with the weather roll. Then the old man got her up in the wind until the jib was shaking like
thunder; then he held her off, and she went off as soon as the head-sails filled, and he couldn't
get her back again without the spanker. Then the Helen B. did her favourite trick, and before
we had time to say much we had a sea over the quarter and were up to our waists, with the parrels
of the trysail only half becketed round the mast, and the deck so full of gear that you couldn't
put your foot on a plank, and the spanker beginning to get adrift again, being badly stopped,
and the general confusion and hell's delight that you can only have on a fore-and-after when
there's nothing really serious the matter. Of course, I don't mean to say that the old man
couldn't have steered his trick as well as you or I or any other seaman; but I don't believe
he had ever been on board the Helen B. before, or had his hand on her wheel till then; and
he didn't know her ways. I don't mean to say that what happened was his fault. I don't know
whose fault it was. Perhaps nobody was to blame. But I knew something happened somewhere on
board when we shipped that sea, and you'll never get it out of my head. I hadn't any spare
time myself, for I was becketing the rest of the trysail to the mast. We were on the starboard
tack, and the throat-halliard came down to port as usual, and I suppose there were at least
three men at it, hoisting away, while I was at the beckets.

Now I am going to tell you something. You have known me, man and boy, several voyages; and
you are older than I am; and you have always been a good friend to me. Now, do you think I
am the sort of man to think I hear things where there isn't anything to hear, or to think I
see things when there is nothing to see? No, you don't. Thank you. Well now, I had passed the
last becket, and I sang out to the men to sway away, and I was standing on the jaws of the
spanker-gaff, with my left hand on the bolt-rope of the trysail, so that I could feel when
it was board-taut, and I wasn't thinking of anything except being glad the job was over, and
that we were going to heave her to. It was as black as a coal-pocket, except that you could
see the streaks on the seas as they went by, and abaft the deck-house I could see the ray of
light from the binnacle on the captain's yellow oilskin as he stood at the wheel--or rather
I might have seen it if I had looked round at that minute. But I didn't look round. I heard
a man whistling. It was "Nancy Lee," and I could have sworn that the man was right over my
head in the crosstrees. Only somehow I knew very well that if anybody could have been up there,
and could have whistled a tune, there were no living ears sharp enough to hear it on deck then.
I heard it distinctly, and at the same time I heard the real whistling of the wind in the weather
rigging, sharp and clear as the steam-whistle on a Dago's peanut-cart in New York. That was
all right, that was as it should be; but the other wasn't right; and I felt queer and stiff,
as if I couldn't move, and my hair was curling against the flannel lining of my sou'wester,
and I thought somebody had dropped a lump of ice down my back.

I said that the noise of the wind in the rigging was real, as if the other wasn't, for I felt
that it wasn't, though I heard it. But it was, all the same; for the captain heard it, too.
When I came to relieve the wheel, while the men were clearing up decks, he was swearing. He
was a quiet man, and I hadn't heard him swear before, and I don't think I did again, though
several queer things happened after that. Perhaps he said all he had to say then; I don't see
how he could have said anything more. I used to think nobody could swear like a Dane, except
a Neapolitan or a South American; but when I had heard the old man I changed my mind. There's
nothing afloat or ashore that can beat one of your quiet American skippers, if he gets off
on that tack. I didn't need to ask him what was the matter, for I knew he had heard "Nancy
Lee," as I had, only it affected us differently.

He did not give me the wheel, but told me to go forward and get the second bonnet off the staysail,
so as to keep her up better. As we tailed on to the sheet when it was done, the man next me
knocked his sou'wester off against my shoulder, and his face came so close to me that I could
see it in the dark. It must have been very white for me to see it, but I only thought of that
afterwards. I don't see how any light could have fallen upon it, but I knew it was one of the
Benton boys. I don't know what made me speak to him. "Hullo, Jim! Is that you?" I asked. I
don't know why I said Jim, rather than Jack.

"I am Jack," he answered. We made all fast, and things were much quieter.

"The old man heard you whistling 'Nancy Lee,' just now," I said, "and he didn't like it."

It was as if there were a white light inside his face, and it was ghastly. I know his teeth
chattered. But he didn't say anything, and the next minute he was somewhere in the dark trying
to find his sou'wester at the foot of the mast.

When all was quiet, and she was hove to, coming to and falling off her four points as regularly
as a pendulum, and the helm lashed a little to the lee, the old man turned in again, and I
managed to light a pipe in the lee of the deck-house, for there was nothing more to be done
till the gale chose to moderate, and the ship was as easy as a baby in its cradle. Of course
the cook had gone below, as he might have done an hour earlier; so there were supposed to be
four of us in the watch. There was a man at the lookout, and there was a hand by the wheel,
though there was no steering to be done, and I was having my pipe in the lee of the deck-house,
and the fourth man was somewhere about decks, probably having a smoke too. I thought some skippers
I had sailed with would have called the watch aft, and given them a drink after that job, but
it wasn't cold, and I guessed that our old man wouldn't be particularly generous in that way.
My hands and feet were red-hot, and it would be time enough to get into dry clothes when it
was my watch below; so I stayed where I was, and smoked. But by and by, things being so quiet,
I began to wonder why nobody moved on deck; just that sort of restless wanting to know where
every man is that one sometimes feels in a gale of wind on a dark night. So when I had finished
my pipe I began to move about. I went aft, and there was a man leaning over the wheel, with
his legs apart and both hands hanging down in the light from the binnacle, and his sou'wester
over his eyes. Then I went forward, and there was a man at the lookout, with his back against
the foremast, getting what shelter he could from the staysail. I knew by his small height that
he was not one of the Benton boys. Then I went round by the weather side, and poked about in
the dark, for I began to wonder where the other man was. But I couldn't find him, though I
searched the decks until I got right aft again. It was certainly one of the Benton boys that
was missing, but it wasn't like either of them to go below to change his clothes in such warm
weather. The man at the wheel was the other, of course. I spoke to him.

"Jim, what's become of your brother?"

"I am Jack, sir."

"Well, then, Jack, where's Jim? He's not on deck."

"I don't know, sir."

When I had come up to him he had stood up from force of instinct, and had laid his hands on
the spokes as if he were steering, though the wheel was lashed; but he still bent his face
down, and it was half hidden by the edge of his sou'wester, while he seemed to be staring at
the compass. He spoke in a very low voice, but that was natural, for the captain had left his
door open when he turned in, as it was a warm night in spite of the storm, and there was no
fear of shipping any more water now.

"What put it into your head to whistle like that, Jack? You've been at sea long enough to know
better."

He said something, but I couldn't hear the words; it sounded as if he were denying the charge.

"Somebody whistled," I said.

He didn't answer, and then, I don't know why, perhaps because the old man hadn't given us a
drink, I cut half an inch off the plug of tobacco I had in my oilskin pocket, and gave it to
him. He knew my tobacco was good, and he shoved it into his mouth with a word of thanks. I
was on the weather side of the wheel.

"Go forward and see if you can find Jim," I said.

He started a little, and then stepped back and passed behind me, and was going along the weather
side. Maybe his silence about the whistling had irritated me, and his taking it for granted
that because we were hove to and it was a dark night, he might go forward any way he pleased.
Anyhow, I stopped him, though I spoke good-naturedly enough.

"Pass to leeward, Jack," I said.

He didn't answer, but crossed the deck between the binnacle and the deck-house to the lee side.
She was only falling off and coming to, and riding the big seas as easily as possible, but
the man was not steady on his feet and reeled against the corner of the deck-house and then
against the lee rail. I was quite sure he couldn't have had anything to drink, for neither
of the brothers were the kind to hide rum from their shipmates, if they had any, and the only
spirits that were aboard were locked up in the captain's cabin. I wondered whether he had been
hit by the throat-halliard block and was hurt.

I left the wheel and went after him, but when I got to the corner of the deck-house I saw that
he was on a full run forward, so I went back. I watched the compass for a while, to see how
far she went off, and she must have come to again half a dozen times before I heard voices,
more than three or four, forward; and then I heard the little West Indies cook's voice, high
and shrill above the rest:--

"Man overboard!"

There wasn't anything to be done, with the ship hove-to and the wheel lashed. If there was
a man overboard, he must be in the water right alongside. I couldn't imagine how it could have
happened, but I ran forward instinctively. I came upon the cook first, half-dressed in his
shirt and trousers, just as he had tumbled out of his bunk. He was jumping into the main rigging,
evidently hoping to see the man, as if any one could have seen anything on such a night, except
the foam-streaks on the black water, and now and then the curl of a breaking sea as it went
away to leeward. Several of the men were peering over the rail into the dark. I caught the
cook by the foot, and asked who was gone.

"It's Jim Benton," he shouted down to me. "He's not aboard this ship!"

There was no doubt about that. Jim Benton was gone; and I knew in a flash that he had been
taken off by that sea when we were setting the storm trysail. It was nearly half an hour since
then; she had run like wild for a few minutes until we got her hove-to, and no swimmer that
ever swam could have lived as long as that in such a sea. The men knew it as well as I, but
still they stared into the foam as if they had any chance of seeing the lost man. I let the
cook get into the rigging and joined the men, and asked if they had made a thorough search
on board, though I knew they had and that it could not take long, for he wasn't on deck, and
there was only the forecastle below.

"That sea took him over, sir, as sure as you're born," said one of the men close beside me.

We had no boat that could have lived in that sea, of course, and we all knew it. I offered
to put one over, and let her drift astern two or three cable's-lengths by a line, if the men
thought they could haul me aboard again; but none of them would listen to that, and I should
probably have been drowned if I had tried it, even with a life-belt; for it was a breaking
sea. Besides, they all knew as well as I did that the man could not be right in our wake. I
don't know why I spoke again. "Jack Benton, are you there? Will you go if I will?"

"No, sir," answered a voice; and that was all.

By that time the old man was on deck, and I felt his hand on my shoulder rather roughly, as
if he meant to shake me.

"I'd reckoned you had more sense, Mr. Torkeldsen," he said. "God knows I would risk my ship
to look for him, if it were any use; but he must have gone half an hour ago."

He was a quiet man, and the men knew he was right, and that they had seen the last of Jim Benton
when they were bending the trysail--if anybody had seen him then. The captain went below again,
and for some time the men stood around Jack, quite near him, without saying anything, as sailors
do when they are sorry for a man and can't help him; and then the watch below turned in again,
and we were three on deck.

Nobody can understand that there can be much consolation in a funeral, unless he has felt that
blank feeling there is when a man's gone overboard whom everybody likes. I suppose landsmen
think it would be easier if they didn't have to bury their fathers and mothers and friends;
but it wouldn't be. Somehow the funeral keeps up the idea of something beyond. You may believe
in that something just the same; but a man who has gone in the dark, between two seas, without
a cry, seems much more beyond reach than if he were still lying on his bed, and had only just
stopped breathing. Perhaps Jim Benton knew that, and wanted to come back to us. I don't know,
and I am only telling you what happened, and you may think what you like.

Jack stuck by the wheel that night until the watch was over. I don't know whether he slept
afterwards, but when I came on deck four hours later, there he was again, in his oilskins,
with his sou'wester over his eyes, staring into the binnacle. We saw that he would rather stand
there, and we left him alone. Folks can't help laughing--they just naturally can't, Ive! You'll be setting there
in court, looking ugly as a gibcat and her lawyer reading them things out. Them cussed lawyers
have a sassy way of----"

Buck got up, kicked his chair off onto the ground, and in choler uncontrollable,
clacked his fists under Avery's nose and barked:

"Twit me another word--just one other word--and I'll drive that old nose of yourn clear up into the
roof of your head!"

Then he locked his store door and stumped away across the field to
the big barn, where the remains of Buck's Leviathan Circus reposed
in isolated state.

No one knows by just what course of agonized reasoning he arrived at his final decision, but at dusk
he came back to the store. With the dumb placidity of some ruminant, Avery was sitting in his same place
on the platform of the emporium.

"Brick," said Ivory, humbly, "I've been thinking back and remembering what I wrote to her--and
it's all of it pretty clear in my mind, 'cause I never wrote love letters to anyone else. And
I can't face it. I couldn't sit in court and hear it.

I couldn't sit here on this platform in my own home place and face the people afterward. I couldn't
start on the road with a circus and have the face to stand before the big tent after it and bark like
I used to. They'd grin me out of business. I'd be backed into the stall.
No, I can't do it.

Go down and see what she'll compromise on."

Avery
came back after two hours and loomed in the dusk before the platform.
He fixed his eyes on the plug hat that was still lowered in the attitude
of despondency.

"I wrassled with her, Ivory, just the same as if I was handling my own money, and I beat her down to
sixty-six hundred.

She won't take a cent less."

"I'll tell you what that sounds like to me," snarled Buck, after a moment
of meditation. "It sounds as if she was going to get five thousand and
you was looking after your little old sixteen hundred."

A couple of tears squeezed out and down over Avery's flabby cheeks.

"This ain't the first time you've misjudged me, when I've been doing you a favor,"
said he. "And it's all on account of the same mis'able woman that I'm
misjudged--and we was living so happy here, me and you. I wish she was
in----" His voice broke.

"I ain't responsible for what I'm saying, Avery," pleaded Buck, contritely.
"You know what things have happened to stir me up the last few hours--yes,
all my life, for that matter. I ain't been comfortable in mind for
thirty years till you come here and cheered me up and showed me
what's what. I appreciate it and I'll prove that to you before we're
done.

We'll get along together all right after this.

All is, you must see me through."

Then the two plug hats bent together in earnest conference.

The next morning Avery, armed with an order on the savings bank at the
shire for six thousand six hundred dollars, and with Buck's bank
book in his inside pocket, drove up to the door of Fyles' tavern in
Buck's best carriage, and Signora Rosyelli flipped lightly up beside
the peace commissioner.

He was to pay over the money on the neutral ground at the shire, receive
the letters, put her aboard a train and then come back triumphantly
into that interrupted otium cum dignitate of Smyrna Corner.

For two days a solitary and bereaved plug hat on the emporium's platform
turned its fuzzy gloss toward the bend in the road at the clump of
alders. But the sleek black nose of Buck's "reader" did not appear.

On the third day the bank book arrived by mail, its account minus six
thousand six hundred dollars, and between its leaves a letter.

It was an apologetic letter, and yet it was flavored with a note of complaint. Brick Avery stated that
after thinking it all over he felt that, having been misjudged cruelly twice, it might happen again,
and being old, he could not endure griefs of that kind. He had supported the first two, but being naturally tender-hearted
and easily influenced, the third might be fatal. Moreover, the conscience of Signora Rosyelli had troubled
her, so he believed, ever since the affair of the one thousand six hundred dollars. So he had decided
that he would quiet her remorse by marrying her and taking entire charge of her improved finances.
In fact, so certain was he that she would waste the money--being
a woman fickle and vain--that he had insisted on the marriage, and
she, realizing her dependence on his aid in cashing in, assented,
and now he assured her that as her husband he was entitled to full
control of their affairs--all of which, so the letter delicately hinted,
was serving as retribution and bringing her into a proper frame of
mind to realize her past enormities.

The writer hoped that his
own personal self-sacrifice in thus becoming the instrument of flagellation would
be appreciated by one whom he esteemed highly.

They would be known at the fairs as Moseer and Madame Bottotte, and would do the
genteel and compact gift-sale graft from the buggy--having the necessary
capital now--and would accept the buggy and horse as a wedding present,
knowing that an old friend with forty-three thousand four hundred
dollars still left in the bank would not begrudge this small gift
to a couple just starting out in life, and with deep regard for him
and all inquiring friends, they were, etc.

In the more crucial moments
of his life Buck had frequently refrained from anathema as a method
of relief.

Some situations were made vulgar and matter-of-fact by sulphurous ejaculation. It dulled the edge of
rancor brutally, as a rock dulls a razor.

Now he merely turned the paper over, took out a stubby lead pencil, licked
it and began to write on the blank side, flattening the paper on his
bank book.

FOR SALE--1 Band Wagon, 1 Swan Chariot, 3 Lion Cages.

He paused here in his laborious scrawl and, despite his resolution
of silence, muttered:

"It's going to be a clean sale. I don't never in all my life want to
hear of a circus, see a circus, talk circus, see a circus man----"

"Crack 'em down, gents!" squalled the parrot.

It was the first time for many hours that he had heard his master's voice,
and the sound cheered him. He hooked his beak around a wire and rattled
away jovially. He seemed to be relieved by the absence of the other
plug hat that had been absorbing so much of the familiar, beloved
and original plug hat's attention.

Ivory looked up at Elkanah vindictively and then resumed his soliloquy.

"No,
sir, never!

Half of circusing is a skin game all through--and I've done my share of the skinning. But to be skinned
twice--me, I. Buck, proprietor--and the last time the worst, but----"

"Twenty can play it as well as one!" the parrot yelled, cocking his
eye over the edge of the cage.

It was an evil scowl that flashed up from under the plug hat, but
Elkanah in his new joy was oblivious.

"Me a man that's been all through it from A to Z--my affections trod on,
all confidence in females destroyed and nothing ahead of me all the
rest of my life!

No, sir, I never want to hear of a circus again.

Bit by
the mouths I fed--and they thumbing their noses at me. That trick----"

"It's the old army game!" squealed the parrot, in nerve-racking rasp.

Ivory
Buck arose, yanked the bottom off the cage, caught the squawking
bird, wrung his neck, tossed him into the middle of the road, and
then, sucking his bleeding finger, went on writing the copy for his
advertisement.

SUPPER WITH NATICA

By ROBERT E. MACALARNEY

It isn't at all pleasant to burn one's fingers, but it's worth while
burning them now and then, if you have to be scorched to be near a
particularly attractive fire; at least I've found it that way.

All of which leads me to Natica Drayton--Melsford that was.

I think I'm the only one of the crew she dragged at her heels who
hasn't forgot about things and gone off after other game; some of
them have been lashed to the burning stake of pretty uncomfortable
domesticity, too.

As for me--well,
I've simply gone on caring, and I think I shall always go on.

Does she know it? Of course she knows it; always has known it, ever since
that first summer at Sacandaga.

Not that I've been ass enough to say anything after the first time. I'm only an ordinary sort of chap when it comes
to intuition, but somehow I've never plucked up the cheek to do any talking about my own miserable
self; not since she let me down as gently as she could, while I
paddled her back from Birch Point to the canoe house, with Elephant Mountain
ragged-backed in the moon-haze.

For the life of me I couldn't tell you what it was she said. There was the drip of water from the
paddle as I lifted it, stroke after stroke; the tiny hiss of smother at the prow, and twisted through it
all, like a gathering string, Natica Melsford's voice, letting me down
easy--as easily as she could.

After I had made fast, I remember feeling that somehow the moonlight
had turned things extremely cold; and I reached for my sweater that
lay in the stern.

I also laughed a great deal too much around the logs at the bungalow
fire, and then drank a deal more than too much at the clubhouse before
turning in.

Maybe it was cowardly to sneak back
to town a couple of days later, "on business," of course--a shabby excuse
for a chap that doesn't dabble in business more than I do. But I honestly
needed to go to get back my equilibrium. I got it, though, and I've
kept it pretty continuously. And this much is enough for that. Natica
Melsford is the only interesting bit about this story, and let's get back
to her.

That winter she married Jack Drayton. The afternoon we rehearsed for the
wedding I looked at her, before we pranced down the aisle and endured
the endless silly giggles of the bridesmaids, and the usher louts
who would fall out of step, and grew more peevish by the minute.

I looked her over then, and I said to myself: "You feeble paranoiac, imagine that girl tying up with
you." Well, I couldn't very well imagine it, although I tried. But I was extremely noisy, and I heard
two or three of the bridesmaids, to say nothing of the maid of honor
and the bridegroom's mamma, tapping their gentle hammers, at my expense,
at the breakfast.

It was a year afterward that I began to fag regularly for the Drayton establishment.

Jack
Drayton, by rights, ought to have been poisoned. He'd be the first
to acknowledge it now.

Perhaps if he'd married a girl who insisted on having things out the
moment they began, the things wouldn't have happened. But Natica Melsford wasn't that
sort. She was the kind that simply looked scorn into and clear through
you, when she thought you were acting low down. This, with a man strung
like Jack was, simply put the fat into the fire.

It would have been different with me. I'd--well--I'd have made an abject
crawl, to be sure. You see, her knowing this was the thing that must
have always queered me with her. A woman prefers a man she can get
furious at and who'll stick it out a bit, to one who caves in at the
first sign of a frown. But Jack carried things too far.

No, he didn't mind my frequenting the house.

He liked me and I liked him. But, all the same, I knew he didn't regard me as a foeman worthy of
his steel. And, although the knowledge made me raw now and then, when
he's come in with his easy, careless way, still I swallowed the mean
feeling because it gave me a chance to see her.

And don't imagine I went around hunting for trouble. It was at the club
one night--I'd just come from the Draytons, and Jack hadn't been home to dinner--that
I heard Rawlins Richardson and Horace Trevano chattering about Maisie
Hartopp.

The "Jo-Jo" song had made the biggest kind of a hit that winter at the Gaiety, and the hit had been
made by the Hartopp singing it to a stage box which the Johnnies scrambled
to bid in nightly.

It seemed like small game for Jack Drayton to be trailing along with
the ruck--the ruck meaning Tony Criswold and the rest of that just-out-of-college
crew--but I didn't need signed affidavits, after five minutes of club
chatter, to know that he was pretty well tied to an avenue window
at Cherry's after the show.

The Ruinart, too, that kept spouting from the bucket beside it, was a
pet vintage of the Hartopp.

There was a lot of that silly chuckle, and I recalled reading somewhere
that there was a husband belonging to the Hartopp, a medium good welterweight,
who picked up a living flooring easy marks for private clubs at Paterson,
N. J., and the like, and occasionally serving as a punching bag for
the good uns before a championship mill.

What the devil was there to do? I couldn't answer the riddle.

It sounds like old women's chatter, the meddlesome way I scribble this
down. It would take a real thing in the line of literature to paint
me right, anyway, I fancy. When a third party keeps mixing in with
husband and wife, he deserves all the slanging that's coming to him;
which same is my last squeal for mercy.

A month went by--two of them. Natica Drayton wasn't the strain that needs spectacles to see through
things. Then, too, I guessed the loving friend sympathy racket was being worked by some of the bridge
whist aggregation which met up with her every fortnight. She laughed more than she ought to have done.
This was a bad sign with her. Once or twice, when the three of us dined
together, and she was almost noisy over the benedictine, I could
have choked Jack Drayton, for he didn't see.

It's not a pretty thing for an outsider to sit à trois, and see things in a wife's manner that the
husband doesn't or won't see; and worse than that, to know that the wife knows you see it and
that he doesn't. Speak to Jack? I wouldn't have done it for worlds. As I said, I'm willing to burn
my fingers and even cuddle the hurt; but I don't meddle with giant
firecrackers except on the Fourth of July, and that didn't come until
afterward.

I was to take her to the opera one night--Drayton had the habit of dropping in for an act or two and
then disappearing--but on her own doorstep she tossed off her carriage wrap and sent Martin back to the stables.

"Let's
talk, instead," she said, and she made me coffee in the library,
with one of those French pots that gurgle conveniently when you don't
exactly know what to say.

That pot did a heap of gurgling before we began to talk. When she spoke, what she said almost took
me off my chair.

"Percy, have you seen the show at the Gaiety?" she asked.

I had seen it more than once, and I said so.

"They tell me there's a song there----" she went on.

"There are a lot of songs," said I.

"There's one in particular."

There wasn't any use in fencing, so I answered: "You mean the 'Jo-Jo' song. It's a silly little
ditty, and it's sung by----"

"A girl named Hartopp--Maisie Hartopp." She was speaking as if she were trying to remember where
she'd heard the name.

Of course, me for the clumsy speech. "She's a winner," I cut in.

She got up at that, and walked over to the fireplace. "She seems to be," she said, picking at
a bit of bronze, a wedding present, I think. Then she came over to where I was sitting and
put a hand on my shoulder. I'd have got to my feet if I hadn't been
afraid to face her.

"Percy----" she began, and I felt the fingers on my shoulder quiver. I don't think the Apaches
handed out anything much worse in the torture line than the quiver of a woman's ringers upon your shoulder,
when you know that those fingers aren't quivering on your account.

Maybe that occurred to her, for a second later she took her hand away.
"You once said something foolish to me, Percy," she said.

I nodded my head, my eyes upon an edge of the Royal Bokhara. "It
was in a canoe, wasn't it?" I replied. "There was a moon, of course,
and the paddle blades went drip, drip."

"You meant what you said then, didn't you?"

My gaze was wavering from the rug by now. Little wonder, was it? "I
meant it all right," I got out after a while.

"Do you want to hear me say my little speech over again?" Was it possible
that, after all, Natica Drayton had really decided to toss Jack over,
and take on a fag, warranted kind and gentle, able to be driven by
any lady?

But I forgot that foolish notion pretty nearly right off.

"There is a husband," she went on, as if taking account of stock.

"There always is," I rejoined. "Some of 'em are good and the others
are bad."

I chuckled despite me, as I put in my mean little hack.

"I mean the Hartopp's husband," she explained.

"There is," I said.
"'Boiler-plate' Hartopp. His given name is James, and he prize-fights
fair to middling." All this wasn't quite good billiards, but we'd
begun wrong that night, and we might as well keep it up, thought I.

Natica
Drayton was tapping her foot upon the fender. "H'm," she mused. "Some
of those horrid names sound interesting." Then she turned to me abruptly.
"I think, perhaps, you ought to go now," she suggested.

"I think
so, too," I agreed, rising very hastily, and taking my leave.

"Have
you Friday evening disengaged?" She flung this after me before I had
got to the hall.

"Yes," said I, all unthinking.

"Then we'll do it
Friday," she said.

"We'll do what?" I asked, coming back to her.
For once I felt rebellious, and showed it, whereat she smiled.

"Supper
after the theater at Cherry's."

"Oh, well, I don't mind that," I
volunteered.

"With 'Boiler-plate' Hartopp," she added.

The searchlight
dawned upon me. It swung around the room once or twice, and that was
enough. I knew in the flood of sudden illumination that the girl had
planned this thing in advance, with the daring of despair--and a wife's
despair, a very young wife's despair, is a more desperate thing than
the anger of any other woman. Natica had planned it all in advance;
had figured it, and the chances of it. And in the balance she had
confidently thrown the asset of my assisting her.

The right sort
of a man, I suppose, would have become enraged because of her taking
things for granted. But I--I had been chained to her chariot too long
a time to experience the mild sensation of resentment.

Natica wished
to face her husband in a crowded restaurant after the play. More than
that, she wished to face him in company with a man not of her sort,
even as he--Drayton--was escorting a woman whose lane of living did
not rightly cross his. The coincidence of Natica's means-to-an-end
being the Hartopp's husband, was simply a gift of fate; an opportunity
of administering poetic justice, which could not be denied. Had the
Hartopp not possessed a convenient husband, Natica would have arranged
for another companion. But even she had not dared to plan her coup
alone, with her chosen instrument of wifely retaliation. Through it
all, she had confidently counted on me, a discreet background, a pliant
puppet.

She could not know what Drayton might do, after they had
eyed one another from different tables. She did not much care. But
she would at least have the painful joy of the Brahmin woman's hope,
who trusts by some fresh incantation to secure a blessing, formerly
vouchsafed her by the gods, but which now old-time petitions fail
to renew. It seemed cold-blooded, the entire arrangement, and yet
I knew it was not. She was far braver than I could have been, even
to win her caring. But I understood. I think, if the doctor had been weak in the head as he was afterwards, he
might have done something foolish again, and there might have been serious trouble. But he
didn't. Only, two or three times I saw him looking at Jack Benton in a queer, scared way, and
once I heard him talking to himself.

"There's two of them! So help me God, there's two of them!"

He didn't say anything more about asking for his discharge, but I knew well enough that if
he got ashore at the next port we should never see him again, if he had to leave his kit behind
him, and his money, too. He was scared all through, for good and all; and he wouldn't be right
again till he got another ship. It's no use to talk to a man when he gets like that, any more
than it is to send a boy to the main truck when he has lost his nerve.

Jack Benton never spoke of what happened that evening. I don't know whether he knew about the
two forks, or not; or whether he understood what the trouble was. Whatever he knew from the
other men, he was evidently living under a hard strain. He was quiet enough, and too quiet;
but his face was set, and sometimes it twitched oddly when he was at the wheel, and he would
turn his head round sharp to look behind him. A man doesn't do that naturally, unless there's
a vessel that he thinks is creeping up on the quarter. When that happens, if the man at the
wheel takes a pride in his ship, he will almost always keep glancing over his shoulder to see
whether the other fellow is gaining. But Jack Benton used to look round when there was nothing
there; and what is curious, the other men seemed to catch the trick when they were steering.
One day the old man turned out just as the man at the wheel looked behind him.

"What are you looking at?" asked the captain.

"Nothing, sir," answered the man.

"Then keep your eye on the mizzen-royal," said the old man, as if he were forgetting that we
weren't a square-rigger.

"Ay, ay, sir," said the man.

The captain told me to go below and work up the latitude from the dead-reckoning, and he went
forward of the deck-house and sat down to read, as he often did. When I came up, the man at
the wheel was looking round again, and I stood beside him and just asked him quietly what everybody
was looking at, for it was getting to be a general habit. He wouldn't say anything at first,
but just answered that it was nothing. But when he saw that I didn't seem to care, and just
stood there as if there were nothing more to be said, he naturally began to talk.

He said that it wasn't that he saw anything, because there wasn't anything to see except the
spanker sheet just straining a little, and working in the sheaves of the blocks as the schooner
rose to the short seas. There wasn't anything to be seen, but it seemed to him that the sheet
made a queer noise in the blocks. It was a new manilla sheet; and in dry weather it did make
a little noise, something between a creak and a wheeze. I looked at it and looked at the man,
and said nothing; and presently he went on. He asked me if I didn't notice anything peculiar
about the noise. I listened awhile, and said I didn't notice anything. Then he looked rather
sheepish, but said he didn't think it could be his own ears, because every man who steered
his trick heard the same thing now and then,--sometimes once in a day, sometimes once in a
night, sometimes it would go on a whole hour.

"It sounds like sawing wood," I said, just like that.

"To us it sounds a good deal more like a man whistling 'Nancy Lee.'" He started nervously as
he spoke the last words. "There, sir, don't you hear it?" he asked suddenly.

I heard nothing but the creaking of the manilla sheet. It was getting near noon, and fine,
clear weather in southern waters,--just the sort of day and the time when you would least expect
to feel creepy. But I remembered how I had heard that same tune overhead at night in a gale
of wind a fortnight earlier, and I am not ashamed to say that the same sensation came over
me now, and I wished myself well out of the Helen B., and aboard of any old cargo-dragger,
with a windmill on deck, and an eighty-nine-forty-eighter for captain, and a fresh leak whenever
it breezed up.

Little by little during the next few days life on board that vessel came to be about as unbearable
as you can imagine. It wasn't that there was much talk, for I think the men were shy even of
speaking to each other freely about what they thought. The whole ship's company grew silent,
until one hardly ever heard a voice, except giving an order and the answer. The men didn't
sit over their meals when their watch was below, but either turned in at once or sat about
on the forecastle smoking their pipes without saying a word. We were all thinking of the same
thing. We all felt as if there were a hand on board, sometimes below, sometimes about decks,
sometimes aloft, sometimes on the boom end; taking his full share of what the others got, but
doing no work for it. We didn't only feel it, we knew it. He took up no room, he cast no shadow,
and we never heard his footfall on deck; but he took his whack with the rest as regular as
the bells, and--he whistled "Nancy Lee." It was like the worst sort of dream you can imagine;
and I dare say a good many of us tried to believe it was nothing else sometimes, when we stood
looking over the weather rail in fine weather with the breeze in our faces; but if we happened
to turn round and look into each other's eyes, we knew it was something worse than any dream
could be; and we would turn away from each other with a queer, sick feeling, wishing that we
could just for once see somebody who didn't know what we knew.

There's not much more to tell about the Helen B. Jackson so far as I am concerned. We were
more like a shipload of lunatics than anything else when we ran in under Morro Castle, and
anchored in Havana. The cook had brain fever, and was raving mad in his delirium; and the rest
of the men weren't far from the same state. The last three or four days had been awful, and
we had been as near to having a mutiny on board as I ever want to be. The men didn't want to
hurt anybody; but they wanted to get away out of that ship, if they had to swim for it; to
get away from that whistling, from that dead shipmate who had come back, and who filled the
ship with his unseen self. I know that if the old man and I hadn't kept a sharp lookout the
men would have put a boat over quietly on one of those calm nights, and pulled away, leaving
the captain and me and the mad cook to work the schooner into harbour. We should have done
it somehow, of course, for we hadn't far to run if we could get a breeze; and once or twice
I found myself wishing that the crew were really gone, for the awful state of fright in which
they lived was beginning to work on me too. You see I partly believed and partly didn't; but
anyhow I didn't mean to let the thing get the better of me, whatever it was. I turned crusty,
too, and kept the men at work on all sorts of jobs, and drove them to it until they wished
I was overboard, too. It wasn't that the old man and I were trying to drive them to desert
without their pay, as I am sorry to say a good many skippers and mates do, even now. Captain
Hackstaff was as straight as a string, and I didn't mean those poor fellows should be cheated
out of a single cent; and I didn't blame them for wanting to leave the ship, but it seemed
to me that the only chance to keep everybody sane through those last days was to work the men
till they dropped. When they were dead tired they slept a little, and forgot the thing until
they had to tumble up on deck and face it again. That was a good many years ago. Do you believe
that I can't hear "Nancy Lee" now, without feeling cold down my back? For I heard it too, now
and then, after the man had explained why he was always looking over his shoulder. Perhaps
it was imagination. I don't know. When I look back it seems to me that I only remember a long
fight against something I couldn't see, against an appalling presence, against something worse
than cholera or Yellow Jack or the plague--and goodness knows the mildest of them is bad enough
when it breaks out at sea. The men got as white as chalk, and wouldn't go about decks alone
at night, no matter what I said to them. With the cook raving in his bunk the forecastle would
have been a perfect hell, and there wasn't a spare cabin on board. There never is on a fore-and-after.
So I put him into mine, and he was more quiet there, and at last fell into a sort of stupor
as if he were going to die. I don't know what became of him, for we put him ashore alive and
left him in the hospital.

The men came aft in a body, quiet enough, and asked the captain if he wouldn't pay them off,
and let them go ashore. Some men wouldn't have done it, for they had shipped for the voyage,
and had signed articles. But the captain knew that when sailors get an idea into their heads
they're no better than children; and if he forced them to stay aboard he wouldn't get much
work out of them, and couldn't rely on them in a difficulty. So he paid them off, and let them
go. When they had gone forward to get their kits, he asked me whether I wanted to go too, and
for a minute I had a sort of weak feeling that I might just as well. But I didn't, and he was
a good friend to me afterwards. Perhaps he was grateful to me for sticking to him.

When the men went off he didn't come on deck; but it was my duty to stand by while they left
the ship. They owed me a grudge for making them work during the last few days, and most of
them dropped into the boat without so much as a word or a look, as sailors will. Jack Benton
was the last to go over the side, and he stood still a minute and looked at me, and his white
face twitched. I thought he wanted to say something.

"Take care of yourself, Jack," said I. "So long!"

It seemed as if he couldn't speak for two or three seconds; then his words came thick.

"It wasn't my fault, Mr. Torkeldsen. I swear it wasn't my fault!"

That was all; and he dropped over the side, leaving me to wonder what he meant.

The captain and I stayed on board, and the ship-chandler got a West India boy to cook for us.

That evening, before turning in, we were standing by the rail having a quiet smoke, watching
the lights of the city, a quarter of a mile off, reflected in the still water. There was music
of some sort ashore, in a sailors' dance-house, I dare say; and I had no doubt that most of
the men who had left the ship were there, and already full of jiggy-jiggy. The music played
a lot of sailors' tunes that ran into each other, and we could hear the men's voices in the
chorus now and then. One followed another, and then it was "Nancy Lee," loud and clear, and
the men singing "Yo-ho, heave-ho!"

"I have no ear for music," said Captain Hackstaff, "but it appears to me that's the tune that
man was whistling the night we lost the man overboard. I don't know why it has stuck in my
head, and of course it's all nonsense; but it seems to me that I have heard it all the rest
of the trip."

I didn't say anything to that, but I wondered just how much the old man had understood. Then
we turned in, and I slept ten hours without opening my eyes.

I stuck to the Helen B. Jackson after that as long as I could stand a fore-and-after; but that
night when we lay in Havana was the last time I ever heard "Nancy Lee" on board of her. The
spare hand had gone ashore with the rest, and he never came back, and he took his tune with
him; but all those things are just as clear in my memory as if they had happened yesterday.

After that I was in deep water for a year or more, and after I came home I got my certificate,
and what with having friends and having saved a little money, and having had a small legacy
from an uncle in Norway, I got the command of a coastwise vessel, with a small share in her.
I was at home three weeks before going to sea, and Jack Benton saw my name in the local papers,
and wrote to me.

He said that he had left the sea, and was trying farming, and he was going to be married, and
he asked if I wouldn't come over for that, for it wasn't more than forty minutes by train;
and he and Mamie would be proud to have me at the wedding. I remembered how I had heard one
brother ask the other whether Mamie knew. That meant, whether she knew he wanted to marry her,
I suppose. She had taken her time about it, for it was pretty nearly three years then since
we had lost Jim Benton overboard.

I had nothing particular to do while we were getting ready for sea; nothing to prevent me from
going over for a day, I mean; and I thought I'd like to see Jack Benton, and have a look at
the girl he was going to marry. I wondered whether he had grown cheerful again, and had got
rid of that drawn look he had when he told me it wasn't his fault. How could it have been his
fault, anyhow? Unlike his former chief he welcomes the publication of the Report, which in his opinion
has shared among a number of eminent personages a burden formerly borne by himself alone. But
his enthusiasm for the project as it originally formed itself in his fertile brain is undiminished,
and he still marvels that for the want of a little further sacrifice we should have abandoned the
chance of cutting Turkey out of the War, and uniting in one friendly federation the States of the
Balkans.

Wednesday, March 21st.--General MAUDE'S manifesto to the people of Baghdad, with its allusions to the tyranny
under which they had long been suffering, did not escape the eagle eye of
Mr. DEVLIN, ever anxious to scarify British hypocrisy. So he drafted
a long question to the PRIME MINISTER, embodying the most salient
passages of the manifesto.

Much to his disgust it appeared on the Paper without its "most beautiful and striking passages."
The SPEAKER explained that he had blue-pencilled "a good deal of Oriental and flowery language not suitable
to our Western climate." Not the least part of the joke is the rumour
that the manifesto was largely the work of a Member of the House
well versed in Eastern lore.

Thursday, March 22nd.--The Ministry of National Service, being unprovided
at present with a Parliamentary Secretary, is supposed to be represented
in the House by Mr. ARTHUR HENDERSON.

But as the Member for Barnard Castle has important functions to perform
in the War Cabinet and is rarely in the House he usually deputes some
other Member of the Government to answer Questions addressed to him.

To-day the lot fell upon Mr. BECK, who good-temperedly explained, when a shower of "supplementaries"
rained down upon him, that he really knew nothing about the Department he was temporarily representing.
This led to a tragedy, for Mr. SWIFT MACNEILL worked himself into a paroxysm of excitement over
this constitutional enormity, and finally sat down on his hat. There was a nice parlour on the ground floor,
and Jack had papered it and had hung the walls with photographs of ships and foreign ports,
and with things he had brought home from his voyages: a boomerang, a South Sea club, Japanese
straw hats and a Gibraltar fan with a bull-fight on it, and all that sort of gear. It looked
to me as if Miss Mamie had taken a hand in arranging it. There was a bran-new polished iron
Franklin stove set into the old fireplace, and a red table-cloth from Alexandria, embroidered
with those outlandish Egyptian letters. It was all as bright and homelike as possible, and
he showed me everything, and was proud of everything, and I liked him the better for it. But
I wished that his voice would sound more cheerful, as it did when we first sailed in the Helen
B., and that the drawn look would go out of his face for a minute. Jack showed me everything,
and took me upstairs, and it was all the same: bright and fresh and ready for the bride. But
on the upper landing there was a door that Jack didn't open. When we came out of the bedroom
I noticed that it was ajar, and Jack shut it quickly and turned the key.

"That lock's no good," he said, half to himself. "The door is always open."

I didn't pay much attention to what he said, but as we went down the short stairs, freshly
painted and varnished so that I was almost afraid to step on them, he spoke again.

"That was his room, sir. I have made a sort of store-room of it."

"You may be wanting it in a year or so," I said, wishing to be pleasant.

"I guess we won't use his room for that," Jack answered in a low voice.

Then he offered me a cigar from a fresh box in the parlour, and he took one, and we lit them,
and went out; and as we opened the front door there was Mamie Brewster standing in the path
as if she were waiting for us. She was a fine-looking girl, and I didn't wonder that Jack had
been willing to wait three years for her. I could see that she hadn't been brought up on steam-heat
and cold storage, but had grown into a woman by the sea-shore. She had brown eyes, and fine
brown hair, and a good figure.

"This is Captain Torkeldsen," said Jack. "This is Miss Brewster, captain; and she is glad to
see you."

"Well, I am," said Miss Mamie, "for Jack has often talked to us about you, captain."

She put out her hand, and took mine and shook it heartily, and I suppose I said something,
but I know I didn't say much.

The front door of the cottage looked toward the sea, and there was a straight path leading
to the gate on the beach road. There was another path from the steps of the cottage that turned
to the right, broad enough for two people to walk easily, and it led straight across the fields
through gates to a larger house about a quarter of a mile away. That was where Mamie's mother
lived, and the wedding was to be there. Jack asked me whether I would like to look round the
farm before dinner, but I told him I didn't know much about farms. Then he said he just wanted
to look round himself a bit, as he mightn't have much more chance that day; and he smiled,
and Mamie laughed.

"Show the captain the way to the house, Mamie," he said. "I'll be along in a minute."

So Mamie and I began to walk along the path, and Jack went up toward the barn.

"It was sweet of you to come, captain," Miss Mamie began, "for I have always wanted to see you."

"Yes," I said, expecting something more.

"You see, I always knew them both," she went on. "They used to take me out in a dory to catch
codfish when I was a little girl, and I liked them both," she added thoughtfully. "Jack doesn't
care to talk about his brother now. That's natural. But you won't mind telling me how it happened,
will you? I should so much like to know." 

So he started off for school, saying, as he did so--

"No, I can't go,
Archy; and if I were you, I would wait until Saturday.

You will enjoy it so much better when you have your fathers consent. It always takes away more
than half the pleasure of any enjoyment to think that it is obtained at
the cost of disobedience.

Come! go to school with me now, and I will go into the woods with you
on Saturday."

"No, I can't wait until Saturday.

I'm sure it will rain by that time; and if it don't, the hogs will eat up every nut that has
fallen before that time."

"There'll be plenty left on the trees, if they do.

It's as fine sport to knock them down as to pick them up."

But Archy's purpose was settled, and nothing that Charles Murray could say
had any influence with him. So the boys parted, the one for his school,
and the other for a stolen holiday in the woods.

The moment Charles was alone again, he felt no longer any desire to
go with Archy.

He had successfully resisted the temptation, and the allurement was
gone. But even for listening to temptation he had some small punishment,
for he was late to school by nearly ten minutes, and had not his lessons
as perfect as usual, for which the teacher felt called upon to reprimand
him.

But this
was soon forgotten; and he was so good a boy through the whole day,
and studied all his lessons so diligently, that when evening came, the teacher,
who had not forgotten the reprimand, said to him:

"You have been
the best boy in the school to-day, Charles.

To-morrow morning try and come in time, and be sure that your lessons are all well committed to memory."

Charles
felt very light and cheerful as he went running, skipping, and singing
homeward.

His day had been well spent, and happiness was his reward. When he
came in sight of home, there was no dread of meeting his father and mother,
such as he would have felt if he had played the truant.

Every
thing looked bright and pleasant, and when Juno came bounding out
to meet him, he couldn't help hugging the favorite dog in the joy
he felt at seeing her.

When Charles met his mother, she looked at him with a more earnest
and affectionate gaze than usual. And then the boy noticed that her
countenance became serious.

"Ain't you well, mother?" asked Charles. I wasn't
going to say a word that could interfere with her happiness, and I didn't intend to go back
on Jack Benton; but I remembered what he had said when he left the ship in Havana: that it
wasn't his fault.

"All the same," Miss Mamie went on, as a woman will, without realising what she was saying,
"all the same, I wish I had seen it happen. Then I should know."

Next minute she knew that she didn't mean that, and was afraid that I would think her heartless,
and began to explain that she would really rather have died herself than have seen poor Jim
go overboard. Women haven't got much sense, anyhow. All the same, I wondered how she could
marry Jack if she had a doubt that he might be Jim after all. I suppose she had really got
used to him since he had given up the sea and had stayed ashore, and she cared for him.

Before long we heard Jack coming up behind us, for we had walked very slowly to wait for him.

"Promise not to tell anybody what I said, captain," said Mamie, as girls do as soon as they
have told their secrets.

Anyhow, I know I never did tell any one but you. This is the first time I have talked of all
that, the first time since I took the train from that place. I am not going to tell you all
about the day. Miss Mamie introduced me to her mother, who was a quiet, hard-faced old New
England farmer's widow, and to her cousins and relations; and there were plenty of them too
at dinner, and there was the parson besides. He was what they call a Hard-shell Baptist in
those parts, with a long, shaven upper lip and a whacking appetite, and a sort of superior
look, as if he didn't expect to see many of us hereafter--the way a New York pilot looks round,
and orders things about when he boards an Italian cargo-dragger, as if the ship weren't up
to much anyway, though it was his business to see that she didn't get aground. That's the way
a good many parsons look, I think. He said grace as if he were ordering the men to sheet home
the topgallant-sail and get the helm up. After dinner we went out on the piazza, for it was
warm autumn weather; and the young folks went off in pairs along the beach road, and the tide
had turned and was beginning to come in. The morning had been clear and fine, but by four o'clock
it began to look like a fog, and the damp came up out of the sea and settled on everything.
Jack said he'd go down to his cottage and have a last look, for the wedding was to be at five
o'clock, or soon after, and he wanted to light the lights, so as to have things look cheerful.

"I will just take a last look," he said again, as we reached the house. We went in, and he
offered me another cigar, and I lit it and sat down in the parlour. I could hear him moving
about, first in the kitchen and then upstairs, and then I heard him in the kitchen again; and
then before I knew anything I heard somebody moving upstairs again. I knew he couldn't have
got up those stairs as quick as that. He came into the parlour, and he took a cigar himself,
and while he was lighting it I heard those steps again overhead. His hand shook, and he dropped
the match.

"Have you got in somebody to help?" I asked.

"No," Jack answered sharply, and struck another match. 

I told him briefly that I had just moved down here and had a boy of
ten whom I wished to keep off the streets and keep occupied.

I asked him what the boys around here did during the summer.

"Most
of them work," he answered.

I hadn't thought of this.

"If you are so sure of it, you'd better go and see for yourself, captain," Jack answered, almost
angrily.

He was angry because he was frightened. I left him before the fireplace, and went upstairs.
There was no power on earth that could make me believe I hadn't heard a man's footsteps overhead.
I knew there was somebody there. But there wasn't. I went into the bedroom, and it was all
quiet, and the evening light was streaming in, reddish through the foggy air; and I went out
on the landing and looked in the little back room that was meant for a servant girl or a child.
And as I came back again I saw that the door of the other room was wide open, though I knew
Jack had locked it. He had said the lock was no good. I looked in. It was a room as big as
the bedroom, but almost dark, for it had shutters, and they were closed. There was a musty
smell, as of old gear, and I could make out that the floor was littered with sea chests, and
that there were oilskins and stuff piled on the bed. But I still believed that there was somebody
upstairs, and I went in and struck a match and looked round. I could see the four walls and
the shabby old paper, an iron bed and a cracked looking-glass, and the stuff on the floor.
But there was nobody there. So I put out the match, and came out and shut the door and turned
the key. Now, what I am telling you is the truth. When I had turned the key, I heard footsteps
walking away from the door inside the room. Then I felt queer for a minute, and when I went
downstairs I looked behind me, as the men at the wheel used to look behind them on board the
Helen B.

Jack was already outside on the steps, smoking. I have an idea that he didn't like to stay
inside alone.

"Well?" he asked, trying to seem careless.

"I didn't find anybody," I answered, "but I heard somebody moving about." "I told you it was
the wind," said Jack, contemptuously. "I ought to know, for I live here, and I hear it often."

There was nothing to be said to that, so we began to walk down toward the beach. Jack said
there wasn't any hurry, as it would take Miss Mamie some time to dress for the wedding. So
we strolled along, and the sun was setting through the fog, and the tide was coming in. I knew
the moon was full, and that when she rose the fog would roll away from the land, as it does
sometimes. I felt that Jack didn't like my having heard that noise, so I talked of other things,
and asked him about his prospects, and before long we were chatting as pleasantly as possible.

I haven't been at many weddings in my life, and I don't suppose you have, but that one seemed
to me to be all right until it was pretty near over; and then, I don't know whether it was
part of the ceremony or not, but Jack put out his hand and took Mamie's and held it a minute,
and looked at her, while the parson was still speaking.

Mamie turned as white as a sheet and screamed. It wasn't a loud scream, but just a sort of
stifled little shriek, as if she were half frightened to death; and the parson stopped, and
asked her what was the matter, and the family gathered round.

"Your hand's like ice," said Mamie to Jack, "and it's all wet!"

She kept looking at it, as she got hold of herself again.

"It don't feel cold to me," said Jack, and he held the back of his hand against his cheek.
"Try it again."

Mamie held out hers, and touched the back of his hand, timidly at first, and then took hold of it.

"Why, that's funny," she said.

"She's been as nervous as a witch all day," said Mrs. Brewster, severely.

"It is natural," said the parson, "that young Mrs. Benton should experience a little agitation
at such a moment."

Most of the bride's relations lived at a distance, and were busy people, so it had been arranged
that the dinner we'd had in the middle of the day was to take the place of a dinner afterwards,
and that we should just have a bite after the wedding was over, and then that everybody should
go home, and the young couple would walk down to the cottage by themselves. When I looked out
I could see the light burning brightly in Jack's cottage, a quarter of a mile away. I said
I didn't think I could get any train to take me back before half-past nine, but Mrs. Brewster
begged me to stay until it was time, as she said her daughter would want to take off her wedding
dress before she went home; for she had put on something white with a wreath, that was very
pretty, and she couldn't walk home like that, could she?

So when we had all had a little supper the party began to break up, and when they were all
gone Mrs. Brewster and Mamie went upstairs, and Jack and I went out on the piazza, to have
a smoke, as the old lady didn't like tobacco in the house.

The full moon had risen now, and it was behind me as I looked down toward Jack's cottage, so
that everything was clear and white, and there was only the light burning in the window. The
fog had rolled down to the water's edge, and a little beyond, for the tide was high, or nearly,
and was lapping up over the last reach of sand, within fifty feet of the beach road.

Jack didn't say much as we sat smoking, but he thanked me for coming to his wedding, and I
told him I hoped he would be happy; and so I did. I dare say both of us were thinking of those
footsteps upstairs, just then, and that the house wouldn't seem so lonely with a woman in it.
By and by we heard Mamie's voice talking to her mother on the stairs, and in a minute she was
ready to go. She had put on again the dress she had worn in the morning, and it looked black
at night, almost as black as Jack's coat.

Well, they were ready to go now. It was all very quiet after the day's excitement, and I knew
they would like to walk down that path alone now that they were man and wife at last. I bade
them good-night, although Jack made a show of pressing me to go with them by the path as far
as the cottage, instead of going to the station by the beach road. It was all very quiet, and
it seemed to me a sensible way of getting married; and when Mamie kissed her mother good-night
I just looked the other way, and knocked my ashes over the rail of the piazza. So they started
down the straight path to Jack's cottage, and I waited a minute with Mrs. Brewster, looking
after them, before taking my hat to go. They walked side by side, a little shyly at first,
and then I saw Jack put his arm round her waist. As I looked he was on her left, and I saw
the outline of the two figures very distinctly against the moonlight on the path; and the shadow
on Mamie's right was broad and black as ink, and it moved along, lengthening and shortening
with the unevenness of the ground beside the path.

I thanked Mrs. Brewster, and bade her good-night; and though she was a hard New England woman
her voice trembled a little as she answered, but being a sensible person she went in and shut
the door behind her as I stepped out on the path. It's cheap and we'll have a lot of it. Look
at how the Japanese live on it day after day and keep fat and strong. Then there's cheap fish;
rock cod and such to make good chowders of or to fry in pork fat like the bass and trout I used
to have back home. Then there's baked beans. We ought to have them at least twice a week in the winter.
But this summer we'll live mostly on fish and vegetables. I can get
them fresh at the market."

"It sounds good," I said.

"Just you wait," she cried excitedly. "I'll fatten up both you and the boy."

"And yourself, little woman," I reminded her.

"I'm not going to take the saving out of you."

"Don't you worry about me," she answered. "This will be easier than the other life. I shan't have
to worry about clothes or dinners or parties for the boy.

And it isn't going to take any time at all to keep these four rooms clean and sweet."

I took the rest of the week as a sort of vacation and used it to get acquainted with my new surroundings.
It's a fact that this section of the city which for twenty years
had been within a short walk of my office was as foreign to me as Europe. I had
never before been down here and all I knew about it was through the occasional
head-lines in the papers in connection with stabbing affrays.

For the first day or two I felt as though I ought to carry a revolver.
Whenever I was forced to leave Ruth alone in the house I instructed
her upon no circumstances to open the door.

The boy and I arranged a secret rap--an idea that pleased him mightily--and
until she heard the single knock followed by two quick sharp ones,
she was not to answer.

But in wandering around among these people it was difficult to think
of them as vicious.

The Italian element was a laughing, indolent-appearing group; the scattered Jewish folk were almost
timid and kept very much to themselves. I didn't find a really tough face
until I came to the water front where they spoke English.

On the third morning after a breakfast of oatmeal and hot biscuit--and, by the way, Ruth effected
a fifty per cent. saving right here by using the old-fashioned formula of soda and cream of tartar
instead of baking powder--and baked potatoes, Ruth and the boy and myself started on an exploring
trip. Our idea was to get a line on just what our opportunities were
down here and to nose out the best and cheapest places to buy.

The thing that impressed us right off was the big advantage we had in being within easy access
of the big provision centres. We were within ten minutes' walk of the market, within fifteen of
the water front, within three of the square and within twenty of the department stores. At
all of these places we found special bargains for the day made to attract in town those from
a distance. If one rose early and reached them about as soon as they were opened one could often buy things almost
at cost and sometimes below cost. For instance, we went up town to one of the largest but
cheaper grade department stores--we had heard its name for years but had never been inside the
building--and we found that in their grocery department they had special
mark-downs every day in the week for a limited supply of goods. We bought
sugar this day at a cent a pound less than the market price and
good beans for two cents a quart less.

It sounds at first like rather picayune
saving but it counts up at the end of the year. Then every stall in the market
had its bargain of meats--wholesome bits but unattractive to the careless
buyer. We bought here for fifty cents enough round steak for several
good meals of hash. We couldn't have bought it for less than a dollar
in the suburbs and even at that we wouldn't have known anything about
it for the store was too far for Ruth to make a personal visit and
the butcher himself would never have mentioned such an odd end to
a member of our neighborhood. But I never told what I had seen, for they wouldn't have believed me. I just let
them think I had come too late.

When I reached the cottage and lifted Mamie up, she was raving mad. She got better afterwards,
but she was never right in her head again.

Oh, you want to know if they found Jack's body? I don't know whether it was his, but I read
in a paper at a Southern port where I was with my new ship that two dead bodies had come ashore
in a gale down East, in pretty bad shape. They were locked together, and one was a skeleton
in oilskins.

       *     *     *     *     *

   Francis Marion Crawford, the youngest of the four
   children of the well-known sculptor Thomas Crawford,
   was born in Rome, educated by a French governess;
   then at St Paul's School, Concord, N.H.; in the
   quiet country village of Hatfield Regis, under an
   English tutor; at Trinity College, Cambridge, where
   they thought him a mathematician in those days; at
   Heidelberg and Karlsruhe, and at the University of
   Rome, where a special interest in Oriental languages
   sent him to India with the idea of preparing for a
   professorship.

   At one time in India hard times nearly forced him
   into enlistment in the British army, but a chance
   opening sent him as editor of the Indian Herald to
   Allahabad. It was during the next eighteen months
   that he met at Simla the hero of his first novel,
   "Mr. Isaacs." "If it had not been for him," Mr.
   Crawford has been known to say, "I might at this
   moment be a professor of Sanskrit in some American
   college;" for that idea persisted after his return
   to the United States, where he entered Harvard for
   special study of the subject.

   But from the May evening when the story of the
   interesting man at Simla was first told in a club
   smoking-room overlooking Madison Square, Mr. Crawford's
   life has been one of hard literary work. He returned to
   Italy in 1883, spent most of the next year in
   Constantinople, where he was married to a daughter
   of General Berdan. From 1885 he has made his home in
   Sorrento, Italy, visiting America at intervals.

   "Mr. Isaacs," published in 1882, was followed almost
   at once by "Dr. Claudius." Then The Atlantic
   Monthly claimed a serial, "A Roman Singer," in
   1883. Since that time the list of his novels has
   been increased to thirty-two, besides the historical
   and descriptive works entitled "Ave Roma Immortalis"
   and "The Rulers of the South."

   To Mr. Crawford, the development of a story and of
   the character which suggested it, is the preëminent
   thing. They was livin' on Helen's upon Lower Town beach, and we lodged with
'em.

"Wan mornin' before dawn along comes great Susan in her stockined
feet.

     'Whist!' says she, 'rouse thee out an' don't make
     no noise; I think I heerd a gun from Carnebiggal Ledges.'

"We
     sneaked out like shadows, got the boat afloat and pulled away, mufflin'
the oars with our caps.

   We got a fair start; nobody heerd us go. It weren't yet light
   and the fog were like a bag, but we got there somehow, and sure enough
there were a big steamer fast on the rocks. Great Susan were right.
Oh, I tell you t'eddn guesswork with they St. Helen's folk; male or
female they got a nose for a wreck, same as cats for mice.

     There was a couple o' ship's boats standing by on her port
     side full o' men. But whether the scene
   be in modern India, rural England, the Black Forest, or the
   palaces of Babylon, the story seizes on the imagination and
   fascinates the reader. 

     But I do not think she had acted rightly (though she
     did not deserve to be eaten up); it was very wrong to
     break little Bear's chair and eat his milk, and I
     think Golden Hair will have to take great care to
     keep out of the reach of the THREE BEARS.

       *       *       *       *       *

    THE NOVELS OF
    F. MARION CRAWFORD

    NEW UNIFORM EDITION

    Dr. Claudius
        A Roman Singer
            Zoroaster
                Don Orsino
                    Marion Darche
    A Cigarette Maker's Romance and Khaled
        Taquisara
            Via Crucis
                Sant' Ilario
                    The Ralstons
    Adam Johnstone's Son and A Rose of Yesterday
        Mr. Isaacs
            A Tale of a Lonely Parish
                Saracinesca
                    Paul Patoff
    The Witch of Prague
        Pietro Ghisleri
            Corleone
                Children of the King
                    Katherine Lauderdale
                        To Leeward

    Each, bound in cloth, green and gold, $1.80

       *     *     *     *     *

    In preparation in the Uniform Edition

    An American Politician
        Marzio's Crucifix
            With the Immortals
                Greifenstein
                    The Three Fates
                        Casa Braccio. They was livin' on
                            Helen's upon Lower Town beach, and we lodged with 'em.

"Wan mornin' before dawn along comes great Susan in her stockined
feet.

'Whist!' says she, 'rouse thee
out an' don't make no noise; I think I heerd a gun from Carnebiggal
Ledges.'

"We sneaked out like shadows, got the boat afloat and pulled
away, mufflin' the oars with our caps.

We got a fair start; nobody heerd us go. It
weren't yet light and the fog were like a bag, but we got there somehow,
and sure enough there were a big steamer fast on the rocks.

Great Susan were
right.

       Oh, I tell you t'eddn guesswork with they St. Helen's folk; male or
female they got a nose for a wreck, same as cats for mice. There
was a couple o' ship's boats standing by on her port side full o'
men.

       *     *     *     *     *

    The Macmillan Little Novels
    BY FAVOURITE AUTHORS

    Handsomely Bound in Decorated Cloth
    16mo. 50 cents each

    PHILOSOPHY FOUR
    A STORY OF HARVARD UNIVERSITY
    By Owen Wister
    Author of "The Virginian" etc.

    MAN OVERBOARD
    By F. Marion Crawford
    Author of "Cecilia," "Marietta," etc.

    MR. KEEGAN'S ELOPEMENT
    By Winston Churchill
    Author of "The Crisis," "Richard Carvel," etc.

    MRS. PENDLETON'S FOUR-IN-HAND
    By Gertrude Atherton
    Author of "The Conqueror," "The Splendid Idle
    Forties," etc.

       *     *     *     *     *

    THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 66 Fifth Avenue, New York

