In selecting a president for the convention a new departure was made, for the man chosen was
a clergyman; one of the most eminent divines in the Union,--the Rev. Dr. Robert Breckinridge
of Kentucky, who, on the religious side, had been distinguished as moderator of the Presbyterian
General Assembly, and on the political side was revered for the reason that while very nearly
all his family, and especially his sons and nephews, including the recent Vice-President, had
plunged into the Confederate service, he still remained a staunch and sturdy adherent of the
Union and took his stand with the Republican party.  He was a grand old man, but hardly suited
to the presidency of a political assemblage.

The proceedings were opened with a prayer by a delegate, who had been a colonel in the Union
army, and was now a Methodist clergyman.  The heads of all were bowed, and the clergyman-soldier
began with the words of the Lord's Prayer; but when he had recited about one half of it he
seemed to think that he could better it, and he therefore substituted for the latter half a
petition which began with these words:  ``Grant, O Lord, that the ticket here to be nominated
may command a majority of the suffrages of the American people.''  To those accustomed to the
more usual ways of conducting service this was something of a shock; still there was this to
be said in favor of the reverend colonel's amendment,--he had faith to ask for what he wanted.

This opening prayer being ended, there came a display of parliamentary tactics by leaders from
all parts of the Union: one after another rose in this or that part of the great assemblage
to move this or that resolution, and the confusion which soon prevailed was fearful, the noise
of the street being steadily mingled with the tumult of the house.  But good Dr. Breckinridge
did his best, and in each case put the motion he had happened to hear.  Thereupon each little
group, supposing that the resolution which had been carried was the one it had happened to
hear, moved additional resolutions based upon it.  These various resolutions were amended in
all sorts of ways, in all parts of the house, the good doctor putting the resolutions and amendments
which happened to reach his ear, and declaring them ``carried'' or ``lost,'' as the case might
be.  Thereupon ensued additional resolutions and amendments based upon those which their movers
supposed to have been passed, with the result that, in about twenty minutes no one in the convention,
and least of all its president, knew what we had done or what we ought to do.  Each part of
the house firmly believed that the resolutions which it had heard were those which had been
carried, and the clash and confusion between them all seemed hopeless.

Various eminent parliamentarians from different parts of the Union arose to extricate the convention
from this welter, but generally, when they resumed their seats, left the matter more muddled
than when they arose.

A very near approach to success was made by my dear friend George William Curtis of New York,
who, in admirable temper, and clear voice, unraveled the tangle, as he understood it, and seemed
just about to start the convention fairly on its way, when some marplot arose to suggest that
some minor point in Mr. Curtis's exposition was not correct, thus calling out a tumult of conflicting
statements, the result of which was yet greater confusion, so that we seemed fated to adjourn
pell-mell into the street and be summoned a second time into the hall, in order to begin the
whole proceedings over again.

But just at this moment arose Henry J. Raymond, editor of the ``New York Times.''  His parliamentary
training had been derived not only from his service as lieutenant- governor of the State, but
from attendance on a long series of conventions, State and National.  He had waited for his
opportunity, and when there came a lull of despair, he arose and, in a clear, strong, pleasant
voice, made an alleged explanation of the situation.  As a piece of parliamentary tactics,
it was masterly though from another point of view it was comical.  The fact was that he developed
a series of motions and amendments:--a whole line of proceedings,--mainly out of his own interior
consciousness.  He began somewhat on this wise:  ``Mr. President:  The eminent senator from
Vermont moved a resolution to such an effect; this was amended as follows, by my distinguished
friend from Ohio, and was passed as amended.  Thereupon the distinguished senator from Iowa
arose and made the following motion, which, with an amendment from the learned gentleman from
Massachusetts, was passed; thereupon a resolution was moved by the honorable gentleman from
Pennsylvania, which was declared by the chair to be carried; and now, sir, I submit the following
motion,'' and he immediately followed these words by moving a procedure to business and the
appointment of committees.  Sundry marplots, such as afflict all public bodies did, indeed,
start to their feet, but a universal cry of ``question'' drowned all their efforts, and Mr.
Raymond's motion was carried, to all appearance unanimously.

Never was anything of the kind more effectual.  Though most, if not all, the proceedings thus
stated by Mr. Raymond were fictions of his own imagination, they served the purpose; his own
resolution started the whole machinery and set the convention prosperously on its way.

The general opinion of the delegates clearly favored the renomination of Mr. Lincoln.  It was
an exhibition not only of American common sense, but of sentiment.  The American people and
the public bodies which represent them are indeed practical and materialistic to the last degree,
but those gravely err who ignore a very different side of their character.  No people and no
public bodies are more capable of yielding to deep feeling.  So it was now proven.  It was
felt that not to renominate Mr. Lincoln would be a sort of concession to the enemy.  He had
gained the confidence and indeed the love of the entire Republican party.  There was a strong
conviction that, having suffered so much during the terrible stress and strain of the war,
he ought to be retained as President after the glorious triumph of the Nation which was felt
to be approaching.

But in regard to the second place there was a different feeling.  The Vice-President who had
served with Mr. Lincoln during his first term, Mr. Hamlin of Maine, was a steadfast, staunch,
and most worthy man, but it was felt that the loyal element in the border States ought to be
recognized, and, therefore it was that, for the Vice- Presidency was named a man who had begun
life in the lowest station, who had hardly learned to read until he had become of age, who
had always shown in Congress the most bitter hatred of the slave barons of the South, whom
he considered as a caste above his own, but who had distinguished himself, as a man, by high
civic courage, and as a senator by his determined speeches in behalf of the Union.  This was
Andrew Johnson of Tennessee, a man honest, patriotic, but narrow and crabbed, who turned out
to be the most unfortunate choice ever made, with the possible exception of John Tyler, twenty-four
years before.

The convention having adjourned, a large number of delegates visited Washington, to pay their
respects to the President, and among them myself.  The city seemed to me hardly less repulsive
than at my first visit eight years before; it was still unkempt and dirty,--made indeed all
the more so by the soldiery encamped about it, and marching through it.

Shortly after our arrival our party, perhaps thirty in number, went to the White House and
were shown into the great East Room.  We had been there for about ten minutes when one of the
doors nearest the street was opened, and a young man entered who held the door open for the
admission of a tall, ungainly man dressed in a rather dusty suit of black.  My first impression
was that this was some rural tourist who had blundered into the place; for, really, he seemed
less at home there than any other person present, and looked about for an instant, as if in
doubt where he should go; but presently he turned toward our group, which was near the southwestern
corner of the room, and then I saw that it was the President.  As he came toward us in a sort
of awkward, perfunctory manner his face seemed to me one of the saddest I had ever seen, and
when he had reached us he held out his hand to the first stranger, then to the second, and
so on, all with the air of a melancholy automaton.  But, suddenly, some one in the company
said something which amused him, and instantly there came in his face a most marvelous transformation.
I have never seen anything like it in any other human being.  His features were lighted, his
eyes radiant, he responded to sundry remarks humorously, though dryly, and thenceforward was
cordial and hearty.  Taking my hand in his he shook it in the most friendly way, with a kindly
word, and so passed cheerily on to the others until the ceremony was finished.

Years afterward, noticing in the rooms of his son, Mr. Robert Lincoln, our minister at London,
a portrait of his father, and seeing that it had the same melancholy look noticeable in all
President Lincoln's portraits, I alluded to this change in his father's features, and asked
if any artist had ever caught the happier expression.  Mr. Robert Lincoln answered that, so
far as he knew, no portrait of his father in this better mood had ever been taken; that when
any attempt was made to photograph him or paint his portrait, he relapsed into his melancholy
mood, and that this is what has been transmitted to us by all who have ever attempted to give
us his likeness.

In the campaign which followed this visit to Washington I tried to do my duty in speaking through
my own and adjacent districts, but there was little need of speeches; the American people had
made up their minds, and they re<e:>lected Mr. Lincoln triumphantly.

Two things during this session are forever stamped into my memory.  The first was the news
of Lee's surrender on April 9, 1865: though it had been daily expected, it came as a vast relief.

It was succeeded by a great sorrow.  On the morning of April 15, 1865, coming down from my
rooms in the Delavan House at Albany, I met on the stairway a very dear old friend, the late
Charles Sedgwick, of Syracuse, one of the earliest and most devoted of Republicans, who had
served with distinction in the House of Representatives, and had more than once been widely
spoken of for the United States Senate.  Coming toward me with tears in his eyes and voice,
hardly able to speak, he grasped me by the hand and gasped the words, ``Lincoln is murdered.''
I could hardly believe myself awake: the thing seemed impossible;--too wicked, too monstrous,
too cruel to be true; but alas! confirmation of the news came speedily and the Presidency was
in the hands of Andrew Johnson.

Shortly afterward the body of the murdered President, borne homeward to Illinois, rested overnight
in the State Capitol, and preparations were made for its reception.  I was one of the bearers
chosen by the Senate and was also elected to pronounce one of the orations.  Rarely have I
felt an occasion so deeply: it has been my lot during my life to be present at the funerals
of various great rulers and magnates; but at none of these was so deep an impression made upon
me as by the body of Lincoln lying in the assembly chamber at Albany, quiet and peaceful at last.

