TEN ENGLISHMEN OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY

By James Richard Joy

1902

To My Daughter Helen With Her Father's Love

PREFACE

The object of this work is to set forth with as much clearness as possible the more important
facts in the history of England in the nineteenth century. We have chosen to do this through
the medium of biography, in the belief that the lives of a few representative men would present
better opportunities for interesting and effective treatment than an historical narrative,
which must have been encumbered by a mass of detail not capable of effective disposition within
the limited space at our command. An introductory chapter serves to give a general view of
the course of events and to show the relations of the men and movements which are afterward
presented in more detail.

With but one exception our "Ten Englishmen" are men in public life, political or military.
Artists, authors, preachers, and scholars were purposely left out of the account, because they
are to receive prominence in other parts of the course for which this volume was written. The
exception was made in the case of George Stephenson, because the revolution in transportation,
due to his improvement of the locomotive engine, has had such a powerful influence upon the
industrial development of the nation.

In bringing these great personages before the reader our intention has been quite as much historical
as biographical. Each name is linked with some conspicuous problem in statesmanship, and the
endeavor has been to set forth the work as well as the workman. It is hoped that the library
notes appended to each chapter will be of assistance to the earnest student, in supplementing
the meager outlines of this volume with the abundance of personal detail and wealth of dramatic
incident which give life and action to history.

The appendix should not be overlooked. Its selections from authentic speeches, letters, dispatches,
and other writings bring the reader into touch with the men who made England great.

One word more. Our "Ten" are not necessarily "THE Ten." They are the men whose lives lay in
line with the writer's plan. If they serve to accentuate the leading features of the history
we are not disposed to argue with those who would present other candidates for the honor of
inclusion in the list.

     James Richard Joy

     Plainfield, N.J., June 4, 1902.

INTRODUCTION

ENGLAND IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY

The opening of the nineteenth century found England in the midst of a great foreign war, which
for almost a generation absorbed the thought and energy of the nation, and postponed for the
time the vital questions of economic and political reform which clamored for settlement.

THE STRUGGLE WITH NAPOLEON

The war began in 1793, when the French nation, having overturned its ancient throne, and revolutionized
its social and political institutions, set out on a democratic crusade for "Liberty, Equality,
and Fraternity," which involved it in a conflict with the governments of Europe. William Pitt,
who had been Prime Minister of George III. since 1783, had twice banded the European states
against the French republican armies; but while the English fleets remained masters of the
seas, the enthusiasm of the French soldiers, and the genius of their young generals, had thus
far proved too strong for the mercenary battalions of despotism. In the closing month of the
year 1800, Pitt's "Second Coalition" had been shattered by the defeat of the Allies at Hohenlinden.
The Peace of Amiens which shortly ensued (March, 1802, to May, 1803) was but a delusion. England
greeted it with joy and hope, but soon discovered its unreality. From the renewal of hostilities,
in May, 1803, until the final triumph of the allies, in 1815, the war resolved itself into
a struggle between Napoleon and England. This young Corsican lieutenant had raised himself
by sheer force of genius and unscrupulous ambition to absolute power. His scheme for the subjugation
of Europe beat down every obstacle except the steady and unbending opposition of England. Pitt,
who had withdrawn from the government because of the stupid King's refusal to honor his Minister's
pledges of equal rights to the Irish Catholics, was recalled by the universal voice ot the
nation to organize the resistance. Napoleon had assembled immense armaments upon the Channel
coast of France for a descent on England, and had created a vast flotilla to transport the
force to Kent. Great Britain trembled with excited apprehension. Three hundred thousand volunteers
offered their services to the government. But, as often in the past, Britain's best defense
was her wooden walls, and the sagacity, seamanship, and valor of her sailors, who out- manoeuvered
the combined fleets of France and Spain, crushed their power at Trafalgar (October, 1805),
and secured the Channel against the invader. Pitt's gold had called into existence a third
coalition (England, Russia. Austria, and Sweden), only to see Napoleon hurl it to the ground
on the field of Austerlitz (December, 1805). England's isolation seemed as complete as the
Emperor's victory. Russia, Austria, and Prussia made humiliating peace with the victor, who
carved his conquests into new states and kingdoms. Pitt, who, at the news of Austerlitz, had
pointed to the map of Europe with the words "Roll up that map, there will be no use for it
these ten years," survived the calamity scarcely a month.

Unable to meet, as yet, the English troops in battle on the land as he had met and defeated
those of the Continent, and unequal to England on the seas, Napoleon devised a more insidious
plan of campaign. Believing that a "nation of shop-keepers" might be attacked through its trade,
he issued from the Prussian capital, in 1806, the famous Berlin Decree, which was the first
note of that "Continental System," which was intended to close the ports of Europe to British
goods. The British government met this boycott by its "Orders in Council," which placed a blockade
upon French ports, and authorized the capture of neutral vessels endeavoring to trade with
them. This inconclusive commercial warfare lasted several years, but was far from being successful
in its object of ruining England. Indeed, it is said that the most stringent enforcement of
the "Decrees" and "Orders" did not prevent the Napoleonic armies from wearing uniforms of English
cloth and carrying English steel in their scabbards.

England first began to make head against the French conqueror when that far-sighted minister
George Canning sent Sir Arthur Wellesley to Portugal to take command of the British forces
in the Peninsula. Wellesley had recently returned from India, where he had achieved a brilliant
reputation for thoroughness of organization, precision of manoeuver, and unvarying success,
qualities which at that time were lamentably rare among British generals. In Portugal first,
and later in Spain, the sterling qualities of the new commander steadily gained ground for
England, driving out the French marshals, and carrying this Peninsular War to a triumphant
conclusion by the invasion of France (1814). Created Duke of Wellington for his successes in
the Peninsula, Wellesley held command of the allied forces on the Belgian frontier when, on
the 18th of June, 1815, they met and routed the French at Waterloo. That day made Napoleon
an exile, and "the Iron Duke" the idol of the English lands in which he continued to be the
most conspicuous personage for nearly half a century.

THE RESETTLEMENT OF EUROPE

Waterloo brought England into new relations with the nations of Europe. The Congress of Vienna,
in which the victors endeavored to restore the damage wrought by the Corsican intruder, added
Cape of Good Hope, Ceylon, Malta, and a few less important islands, to the growing colonial
empire of Great Britain. The Holy Alliance, which had been suggested by the Czar in 1815, at
the friendly meeting of the Russian, Austrian, and Prussian sovereigns at Paris, was in theory
a compact between these powerful rulers--"an intimate union on the basis of morality and religion"--but
it soon degenerated into an unholy league for the mutual protection of these three despotic
dynasties against the dormant forces of constitutional liberty, which began to stir again in
every European state as soon as the Napoleonic specter had been laid. The French Revolution
had given currency to opinions which no congress of sovereigns could wholly repress, and now
the policy of the "Alliance," to strangle all constitutional aspirations and rivet the chains
of Bourbonism upon limbs that had once known the bliss of freedom, led to fierce intellectual
revolt, and sometimes to physical violence. England had made common cause with Turk and Christian,
Kaiser and King, against Napoleon, and for a time her statesmen viewed with complacency the
Holy Alliance, so reassuring in its name and so pure in its professions; but when it became
evident that this mighty league was to be thrown against every liberty-loving people in the
Old World and the New, George Canning broke the irksome bond, and put the land of parliaments
and constitutional liberty in its rightful place as the friend of freedom and the foe to the
oppressor. It was the spirit if not the voice of Canning which was powerful to save Portugal
from the Bourbon, to recognize the independence of the revolted American colonies of Spain,
and to restrain the enemies of freedom from handing insurgent Greece back to the Turk. His
predecessors had been accustomed to sink the interests and desires of England in regard for
what the continental power called "the good of Europe." He was the first statesman of his generation
who dared to take an independent position on "European" questions--"to write 'England,'" as
he phrased it, "where it had been the custom to write 'Europe.'" The policy which he inaugurated
marks a turning- point in the history of British foreign affairs.

Catholic Emancipation

George IV., who had been regent since his father's illness in 1812, reigned in his own name
from 1820 to 1830, though his voice in the affairs of state was small indeed. His Ministers,
Liverpool, Canning, Goderich, and Wellington, were confronted by serious problems of domestic
policy which had sprung up during the long period of foreign wars and partly in direct consequence
of those disturbing conditions. The one recurrent question which found definite settlement
in this reign was that of Catholic emancipation. The penal laws against Roman Catholics had
disgraced the English statute-books for two centuries. On the first of January, 1801, the Legislative
Union of Great Britain and Ireland had gone into effect under the name of the United Kingdom.
The Irish Parliament, which had met in Dublin since 1782, went out of existence, and in the
place of "Home Rule" Ireland was represented in both houses of the Imperial Parliament at Westminster.
Pitt had promised the numerous Catholics of Ireland that the laws which made them ineligible
to represent their country in Parliament should be repealed, and had abandoned office in disgust
when George III. refused to sanction his project of Catholic emancipation. In 1807 the Whig
ministry espoused the same cause, and in turn resigned because of the opposition of the Crown.
In Daniel O'Connell the cause at length found a spokesman whose eloquence, wit, and talent
for "agitation" soon combined his Irish partisans into "The Catholic Association." Working
in conjunction with the Whigs of England, O'Connell's followers formed a body which could not
be neglected. Soon after Canning's untimely death the Duke of Wellington had taken office.
He was a Tory, with all the prejudices of that political faith deepened by his birth and training
as an Irish Protestant, but the agitation had reached such proportions that he saw in it a
menace of civil war, to avoid which he was willing to abandon his most cherished opinions on
the Catholic question. Accordingly, in 1829, the Iron Duke faced about and brought in the bill
which, becoming a law by Whig and Canningite votes, admitted Roman Catholics to Parliament,
and to civil rights only a little short of complete. But instead of removing the Irish question
from politics, it was only prepared for more strenuous presentation in a new guise, for O'Connell
was returned to Parliament at the head of some fifty Catholic members to agitate for Irish
independence.

RAILWAYS

The perfection of the steam locomotive and the inception and marvelous development of the system
of steam railway transportation marked the second quarter of the century. The name of the Stephensons,
father and son, is inseparably connected with this work which has affected so deeply the economic
and social life of the nation, and has contributed in a thousand indirect ways to the expansion
and consolidation of the empire. It has been said that in 1825 the traveler from London to
Rome went no faster than the courier of the Caesars, eighteen hundred years before. Thanks
to George Stephenson's inventive genius, the traveler of today consumes scarcely more time
between London and Peking.

THE REFORM OF PARLIAMENT

The reform of Parliament was the next question to come up for settlement. In 1830 representation
in the House of Commons still remained upon a basis which had been established centuries before.
Meantime the distribution of the voting population had been totally transformed. The most populous
shires had no more seats than the least of all. There were decayed boroughs which had dwindled
in population until but a handful of voters remained, yet these "rotten" boroughs retained
their right to choose one or more members of Parliament, while the great modern manufacturing
towns and seaports were totally unrepresented. The agitation for parliamentary reform, which
rose in the middle of the eighteenth century, was directed against the sale of seats in the
rotten boroughs, and the shameless bribery. As early as 1770 Lord Chatham had predicted reform
or revolution. His son, the younger Pitt, had proposed remedies, but the deluge which overwhelmed
the government of France in the closing years of the century stiffened English conservatism
for a century against any radical political change. Meanwhile the rapid industrial expansion
of the kingdom, with its unprecedented increase of population, and the sudden growth of insignificant
hamlets into teeming factory towns, had emphasized the injustice of existing arrangements.
Earl Grey, who had been an advocate of reform for forty years, and Lord John Russell, who had
championed the cause for a decade, were united in the Whig ministry which succeeded Wellington
in 1830. Supported by a tremendous popular demand which seemed to stir the nation to its depths
they brought in their first bill in 1831. It prevailed in the Commons by a bare majority, but
the Tory House of Lords threw it out. This action by the privileged class was a signal for
an indignant outburst from the nation. The "Radicals," as the advanced Whigs were already beginning
to be called, did not conceal their lack of respect for the Upper House, and used revolutionary
threats against it as a relic of mediaevalism which should no longer be tolerated in a free
state. But the time had passed when the peers could flout an aroused nation. When the Third
Reform Bill was ready for passage, the ministers secured the King's promise to frustrate the
opposition of the Lords by filling up the House with new peers created expressly to vote for
reform. The threat sufficed. Wellington and the most stern and unbending Tories absented themselves
from the decisive division, and allowed the Reform Bill to become a law in June, 1832.

ADMINISTRATIVE REFORMS

Great things were expected of the first Parliament which was chosen on the basis of the new
law. The seats gained by the disfranchisement of the small and corrupt boroughs were distributed
to new constituencies in London, Liverpool, Manchester, Birmingham, Leeds, Newcastle, and the
other modern cities. The more populous counties were subdivided into districts, and the divisions
received additional representation. The franchise had also been extended and based upon a moderate
property qualification. The result was, that the center of political power passed from the
nobility and landed gentry, with whom it had resided for centuries, and came to the farmers
and shop-keepers, the so-called middle class, lying between the ancient aristocracy of birth
and landed possessions and the still unenfranchised masses of mill operatives and agricultural
laborers. That the new Parliament would show a new temper and be dominated by new ideas was
but natural. But those who inferred from the bitterness of the struggle for reform that the
nation was on the verge of an abyss into which the Lords and the Crown should shortly topple,
greatly deceived themselves.

THE POOR LAWS

The reformed Parliaments devoted themselves to certain long- deferred and intensely practical
reforms which were social and economic in their nature, leaving the constitution alone for
the next twenty years. In these Parliaments and ministries for the next forty years the Whig
party usually had the upper hand. In 1834 Parliament revolutionized the system of public relief
to the needy which had existed for fifty years, to the extreme demoralization of the poorer
working-classes and the frustration of really benevolent purpose. The old law had assumed that
each parish owed every native a living. A sliding scale was accordingly provided by which,
as the rate of wages declined, the parish should pay to the workman enough to bring his receipts
up to the standard amount. Employers took advantage of this system cut wages to a minimum,
the parish making up the difference. Another mischievous clause increased the pauper's dole
in proportion to the number of his children, with the direct result of early and improvident
marriages. To put it bluntly, children were bred for the bounty. The number of persons receiving
parish aid was enormously increased. The self-respect of the poor was destroyed, and the poor-rate
became a burden of millions of pounds annually upon the treasury. The act of 1834 put an end
to these abuses by restricting outdoor relief to the aged and destitute, and requiring all
other paupers to go to the union workhouse. Within two years the poor-rate was diminished fully
one-third.

ABOLITION OF SLAVERY

In 1834 slavery was abolished throughout the British dominions. The earnest labors of the Abolitionists,
Clarkson, Wilberforce, Macaulay, and others, had secured the abolition of the slave trade thirty
years before (1807), but the united opposition of the colonial planters to a reform which would
deprive them of the services of their chattel laborers postponed the consummation of the humanitarian
measure. The reformed Parliament proved less sensitive to the planters' arguments. It destroyed
the system forever, making a cash compensation to the owners.

A third question, on which Earl Grey's ministry took high moral ground, was a redress of another
of the ancient wrongs of Ireland. The Church of England was by law established in that most
distressful country, and the people, though mostly Roman Catholics, were under the necessity
of paying tithes for the support of a church which they detested, and which indeed, in a large
part of the island, had no existence except for purposes of taxation. The Irish protest, as
has often been the case, took the form of violence and outrage, the so-called "Tithe War,"
which postponed rather than hastened the redress of their grievance. But in 1835 the ministry
of Lord Melbourne relieved the peasants of this part of their many burdens.

ACCESSION OF VICTORIA

The name of Lord Melbourne has been kept green not only by the Australasian metropolis, but
by the fact that it was his duty as Prime Minister to announce to the Princess Alexandrina
Victoria the fact--to her so momentous--that her uncle, William IV., was dead (June 20, 1837),
and that she, a girl of eighteen, was Queen of England. Victoria, as she was known thenceforward,
lived to see the dawn of the twentieth century, to witness the enormous development of the
British empire in population, wealth, and power, and it is perhaps not too much to say, to
win all hearts among her subjects by the simplicity, purity, and strength of her character.
Had she displayed the stubborn stupidity of her grandfather, George III., or the immorality
of some of his sons, it is not rash to believe that the tide of radicalism might have thrown
down all barriers and swept away the throne on the flood of democracy. By grace of character
she was a model constitutional sovereign, and her benign reign, the longest in English annals,
contributed more than the policy of any of her ministers to make the monarchy popular and permanent.

The first decade of the Victorian era witnessed three great agitations, two of which ended
in fiasco and the third in a triumph which wrought tremendous changes in the kingdom. "Chartism,"
"Repeal," and "Free Trade" were the three topics on which the thought of multitudes was engaged.

CHARTISM

Chartism was the name applied to the agitation in favor of a statement of principles called
"The People's Charter." The six points of Chartism were: (l) annual Parliaments, (2) salaries
for members, (3) universal suffrage, (4) vole by ballot, (5) abolition of property qualification
for membership in the House of Commons, and (6) equal electoral districts. The demand came
from the workingmen, who were dissatisfied because the Reform Bill of 1832 had stopped short
of their political stratum. The Chartists copied the method of agitation which O'Connell had
employed in extorting Catholic emancipation. Monster meetings, mile-long petitions, copious
effusions of printer's ink and oratory, and a National Charter Association were a part of the
machinery. In 1848, when the prevalent hard times increased the restless discontent of the
masses, the movement culminated in a vast assembly on Kennington Common. A respectful half-million
were to march to Westminster and lay their demands, the six points backed by six million signatures,
before the Commons. The year 1848 was one of widespread discontent, the revolution year of
the century, and the authorities took pains to guard the peace of London with especial care,
even Wellington being called into service to direct the military. But nine-tenths of the mob
failed to put in appearance, and the monster petition turned out to be a monstrous and clumsy
fraud. Nothing came of it at the moment. The return of better times took the heart out of the
agitation, and the progress of orderly political development gradually incorporated three of
the Chartist points in the law of the land without seriously affecting the constitution.

O'CONNELL AND REPEAL

The second popular war cry was "Repeal." In this agitation, again O'Connell's was the chief
personage, and his eloquence the chief factor. It was in effect another phase of the Irish
demand for Home Rule. Since the first day of the new century Ireland had been, for legislative
purposes, a part of the United Kingdom. It was the act which had established this "Legislative
Union" and abolished the Irish Parliament which O'Connell was determined to repeal. All that
monster meetings, soul-moving oratory, secret associations, printer's ink, could do to influence
the government by parliamentary manoeuver, demonstration of popular feeling, intimidation,
and threats of insurrection was done. As a member of Parliament, and the dictator to his "tail"
of half a hundred Irish members, the silver-tongued "Irish tribune" exerted a considerable
political power so long as parties were somewhat evenly divided so as to make his support desirable.
But when, in 1841, the Tories came back into office under Sir Robert Peel, backed by a strong
majority, this influence declined. The arrest of O'Connell, in 1843, for treasonable utterances,
discredited him with his following, which soon fell apart-the more determined section to carry
Ireland's cause to the extreme of violent outbreak, the milder partisans to await a more opportune
moment to press their agitation for Home Rule.

THE REPEAL OF THE CORN LAWS

The names of Sir Robert Peel and Richard Cobden are indissolubly connected with the legislation
which repealed the "Corn Laws" and placed English commerce upon the basis of free trade--Cobden
as the theorist and untiring agitator, whose splendid talents were unsparingly devoted to preparing
public opinion for the economic revolution, and Peel as the protectionist Prime Minister, who
was open-minded enough to become convinced of his error in persisting in the policy in which
he had been trained. The necessity for a change of commercial policy grew out of the altered
conditions in the nation. The agricultural England of the eighteenth century had in a generation
been transformed into a hive of manufacturing industry. The rapid adoption of steam power and
improved machinery in England on the one hand, and the paralysis of industry on the Continent
during the Napoleonic wars, had wrought the change, while the commercial marine, guarded by
her powerful navy, had brought the carrying trade of the world under her flag. The weakest
point in the English system was the protective tariff, which lay heaviest on imports of grain--or
"corn," to use the insular term. The Corn Laws were a body of legislation enacted from time
to time by Parliaments which were controlled by the great land-owning interests. The land-owner,
whose income was derived chiefly from rents upon agricultural lands, consistently favored a
scale of tariffs which would maintain the price of cereal grains at the highest figure. At
the close of the great war (1815) the nation was confronted with business disaster. "War prices"
for grain fell rapidly, the markets were stocked with more manufactured goods than impoverished
Europe could absorb, while the English labor market was glutted by the influx of several hundred
thousand able-bodied soldiers and sailors in quest of industrial employment. As early as 1821
Mr. Huskisson, a cabinet colleague of Mr. Canning, had endeavored to lighten the burden of
British manufactures by reducing the import duties upon the raw material used by the English
looms. He was for getting at the root of the matter and disposing of the Corn Laws, so as to
provide "free food" as well as "free raw materials," but his Tory companions believed that
such legislation would vote the bread out of their own mouths. In 1838 an Anti-Corn Law Association
was formed at Manchester. Under the direction of Richard Cobden, a young and successful manufacturer,
who had become the most ardent of free traders, a league of similar clubs was organized throughout
the country, and through it an agitation unsurpassed in the history of politics was prosecuted
until its object was attained. In Parliament he became one of the most effective orators, and
the chief target of his argument was Peel, the leader of the protectionists. In 1845-46 a more
powerful argument than Cobden's was thrown into the scale. The failure of the Irish potato
crop, the sole food supply of that unhappy island, "forced Peel's hand." In the face of two-thirds
of his own party, in opposition to his own life-long political creed, he gave notice as Prime
Minister that he should introduce a bill for the immediate reduction and ultimate repeal of
the laws which were responsible for the high price of food. He had become a convert to free
trade, and was ready to carry it into practice. The young Disraeli as the representative of
the Protectionist element of his party, lashed the premier in the speech which first gave him
a following in the Parliament that he was soon to control. But enough Peelites followed their
leader into the camp of the free traders to carry the bill. The Corn Laws disappeared from
the statute-book.

HUMANITARIAN LEGISLATION

The sudden and enormous expansion of English industry in the early part of the century brought
special hardship to several classes in the community. The substitution of the factory system
for cottage industry destroyed home life for thousands of families, and the pressure of poverty
and the greed of manufacturers ground the poor mill operatives between the upper and nether
millstones. To Anthony Ashley Cooper, Earl of Shaftesbury, more than to any other is due the
persistent investigation and disclosure which aroused the public mind to the prevailing conditions
in mine and factory where hours of labor were excessive, and where women and children were
subjected to degrading tasks and brutal treatment. The Factory Law and kindred legislation
since 1830 are the fruits of the beneficent and untiring labors of the Earl.

PALMERSTON AND FOREIGN RELATIONS

The era which had been marked by such political, social, and economic reforms and agitations
came to a close in the middle of the century. The Whigs came into power in Parliament in 1846
for a long term. Foreign affairs supplied the most notable topics for the next twenty years.
The foreign minister during much of this time was Lord Palmerston. He it was who piloted the
nation without disaster through the rocks of 1848-51, when thrones were toppling in every European
kingdom, and England was being appealed to for help against despot and democrat.

THE EASTERN QUESTION

The "Eastern Question" now came up. The Czar of Russia, an object of suspicion to England,
because of his rivalry with her for the possession of India, endeavored to secure from the
Sultan of Turkey official recognition of his government as the legitimate protector of Christians
in the Ottoman empire. Such a responsibility would have afforded many opportunities for interfering
in Turkish affairs. France opposed the demand, and Palmerston placed England on the side of
Napoleon III., against the Czar, who had invaded Turkey in pursuance of his design to annex
a large part of her European provinces, and advance his position toward Constantinople. The
Crimean War which followed (1854-56) at least checked Russia for the time. It was the only
European war in which England had borne arms since Waterloo. But in Asia and Africa the Queen's
troops had found almost continual employment along the frontiers of the now vastly extended
empire. In 1857 Persia had to be chastised for edging toward India by way of the Afghan possessions.
Russia had been at the Shah's elbow. In 1856, and repeatedly until 1860, the British fleets
were battering open the ports of China and extorting trade concessions. But the most memorable
war in the imperial history of these years was within the borders of the empire, though in
a distant land. This was the Sepoy Rebellion or Indian mutiny of 1857.

THE GREAT SEPOY MUTINY

The British possessions in India had been more than doubled in extent since the opening of
the century. In 1833 the trade monopoly of the East India Company had been broken, but its
civil and military servants continued to administer the government. Their ability was displayed
especially in the rapidity with which they were extending British authority over the native
states when the outbreak came. A conspiracy was laid among the Sepoys, the native soldiers
in the regiments of "John Company." as the great corporation was called in Asia. To their private
grievances was added the false report that the company intended to force them into Christianity
by serving out to them cartridges which would defile them, neat's tallow for the Hindoo venerator
of the sacred cow, and hog's lard for the Mohammedan hater of swine! In May, 1857, the mutiny
burst into flame. The Sepoys slaughtered their officers and many other Europeans, and restored
the heir of the ancient race of kings to the throne of his fathers at Delhi. Here and there,
at Cawnpore and Lucknow, a few British troops defended themselves and the refugees against
the hordes of bloodthirsty rebels. The "Massacre of Cawnpore" and "the Relief of Lucknow,"
phrases which have passed into history, suggest the fate of the two beleaguered garrisons.
The rebellion was over in a twelve- month, smothered in its own blood. Close upon its suppression
came the death of the East India Company, abolished by act of Parliament in 1858. Since that
year the crown has ruled the Indian realm through a Secretary of State for India, residing
in London, and a Viceroy holding court at Calcutta. From the defeat of the mutineers, in 1859,
to his own death, in 1865, Lord Palmerston managed to save the nation from being embroiled
to the fighting-point in the perpetual quarrels of Europe. Italy fought and won her liberty
from the Austrian; Poland rose against the Russian; Denmark had her damaging Schleswig-Holstein
War with Prussia and Austria. English sympathies were strongly enlisted in all these troubles,
but Palmerston would not allow her to proceed to the point of breaking the peace. From 1861
to 1865, while the Civil War was being fought out in America, his government was prompt to
recognize the belligerent status of the Confederacy, and to favor the South by allowing privateers
like the "Alabama" to be built and manned in English ports. But the actual break with Mr. Lincoln's
government did not come, and the old Whig statesman lived to see the South overpowered.

Through the middle reaches of the century the political power in England remained for the most
part in the hands of the Whig, latterly called Liberal, ministries. The impulse for reform--
political, economic, and social--had spent itself before 1850, and the older statesmen who
guided the public policies had no sympathy with the demands for radical legislation, church
disestablishment, universal suffrage, and what not, which came up from many parts of the nation.
With the death of Palmerston, and the retirement of Russell, a new era was inaugurated, and
new actors stepped to the front of the stage.

GLADSTONE AND DISRAELI

At the head of the Liberals was William Ewart Gladstone, who in his younger days had followed
his master, Peel, out of the old Tory lines into the camp of the free traders, and had been
Russell's chief lieutenant, and Palmerston's financial minister for the last half-dozen years.
He was a man of splendid intellectual power, sterling morality, an adept at parliamentary management,
a shrewd financier, and held a deep conviction that it was the part of statesmanship to embody
in law what he conceived to be the proper demands of the nation. His opponent for a generation
was Benjamin Disraeli, the young Jewish novelist, who had first won a following in the House
of Commons by voicing the venom of the old-line protectionist Tories against the recreant Peel.
Versatile, shifty, brilliant, this adventurous politician made himself indispensable to the
Conservatives, and overcame by political moves which were little short of genius, the leadership
of the opposition. Indeed, he may be said to have transformed Conservatism, giving it a new
rallying cry, and inscribing great achievements upon its banner.

LIBERAL REFORMS

"Whenever that man gets my place we shall have strange doings," Palmerston had said toward
the end of his life, alluding to the open-minded Chancellor of the Exchequer, Mr. Gladstone,
and had he remained on earth for another generation, he would indeed have seen much done by
his erstwhile followers under Gladstone's direction which he would have accounted passing strange.
Admitting the democratic principle that the state owed it to itself to provide every man's
child with an education, Gladstone inaugurated (1870) a beneficent system of free public schools.
An old popular grievance, the viva voce method of voting at parliamentary elections, was done
away and the secret ballot substituted (1872), a change which struck a heavy blow at the prevalent
bribery and intimidation. He corrected one of the worst abuses in the army by abolishing the
purchase system, under which a junior officer was accustomed to buy his promotion by compensating
his seniors, a practice which had closed the higher grades to men of small means. The extension
of the suffrage to the agricultural laborers was finally reached by his Reform Bill of 1884,
the last class being thus admitted to the body politic.

THE CAUSE OF IRELAND

But it was to the grievances of Ireland that Gladstone bent the readiest ear, and it was upon
that reef that his political career made shipwreck at the last. He foresaw the impulse that would prompt
Romola to dwell on that prospect, and what would follow on the mention of the future husband's name.
Fra Luca would tell all he knew and conjectured, and Tito saw no possible falsity by which he could
now ward off the worst consequences of his former dissimulation. It was all over with his prospects
in Florence. There was Messer Bernardo del Nero, who would be delighted at seeing confirmed the wisdom
of his advice about deferring the betrothal until Tito's character and position had been established
by a longer residence; and the history of the young Greek professor, whose benefactor was in slavery,
would be the talk under every loggia. For the first time in his life he felt too fevered and
agitated to trust his power of self-command; he gave up his intended visit to Bardo, and walked up
and down under the walls until the yellow light in the west had quite faded, when, without
any distinct purpose, he took the first turning, which happened to be the Via San Sebastiano,
leading him directly towards the Piazza dell' Annunziata.

He was at one of those lawless moments which come to us all if we have no guide but desire, and
if the pathway where desire leads us seems suddenly closed; he was ready to follow any beckoning
that offered him an immediate purpose.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.

"Beauteous is life in blossom! And it fleeteth--fleeteth ever; Whoso would be joyful--let him!
There's no surety for the morrow."

Carnival Song by Lorenzo de' Medici.

CHAPTER FOURTEEN.

THE PEASANTS' FAIR.

The moving crowd and the strange mixture of noises that burst on him at the entrance of the
piazza, reminded Tito of what Nello had said to him about the Fierucoloni,
and he pushed his way into the crowd with a sort of pleasure in the
hooting and elbowing, which filled the empty moments, and dulled that
calculation of the future which had so new a dreariness for him, as
he foresaw himself wandering away solitary in pursuit of some unknown
fortune, that his thought had even glanced towards going in search
of Baldassarre after all.

At each of the opposite inlets he saw people struggling into the piazza, while above them paper
lanterns, held aloft on sticks, were waving uncertainly to and fro. A rude monotonous chant made
a distinctly traceable strand of noise, across which screams, whistles, gibing chants in piping
boyish voices, the beating of drums, and the ringing of little bells, met each other in confused
din. Every now and then one of the dim floating lights disappeared with a smash from a stone
launched more or less vaguely in pursuit of mischief, followed by a scream and renewed shouts.
But on the outskirts of the whirling tumult there were groups who were keeping this vigil of the
Nativity of the Virgin in a more methodical manner than by fitful stone-throwing and gibing. Certain
ragged men, darting a hard sharp glance around them while their tongues rattled merrily, were
inviting country people to game with them on fair and open-handed terms; two masquerading figures
on stilts, who had snatched lanterns from the crowd, were swaying the lights to and fro in meteoric
fashion, as they strode hither and thither; a sage trader was doing
a profitable business at a small covered stall, in hot berlingozzi,
a favourite farinaceous delicacy; one man standing on a barrel, with
his back firmly planted against a pillar of the loggia in front of
the Foundling Hospital (Spedale degl' Innocenti), was selling efficacious
pills, invented by a doctor of Salerno, warranted to prevent toothache
and death by drowning; and not far off, against another pillar, a
tumbler was showing off his tricks on a small platform; while a handful
of 'prentices, despising the slack entertainment of guerilla stone-throwing,
were having a private concentrated match of that favourite Florentine
sport at the narrow entrance of the Via de' Febbrai.

Tito, obliged to make his way through chance openings in the crowd, found himself at one moment
close to the trotting procession of barefooted, hard-heeled contadine, and could see their sun-dried,
bronzed faces, and their strange, fragmentary garb, dim with hereditary dirt, and of obsolete
stuffs and fashions, that made them look, in the eyes of the city people, like a way-worn
ancestry returning from a pilgrimage on which they had set out a century ago. Just then it was
the hardy, scant-feeding peasant-women from the mountains of Pistoia, who wore entering with a year's
labour in a moderate bundle of yarn on their backs, and in their hearts that meagre hope of good
and that wide dim fear of harm, which were somehow to be cared for by the Blessed Virgin, whose
miraculous image, painted by the angels, was to have the curtain drawn away from it on this
Eve of her Nativity, that its potency might stream forth without obstruction.

At another moment he was forced away towards the boundary of the piazza,
where the more stationary candidates for attention and small coin
had judiciously placed themselves, in order to be safe in their rear.

Among these Tito recognised his acquaintance Bratti, who stood with
his back against a pillar, and his mouth pursed up in disdainful silence,
eyeing every one who approached him with a cold glance of superiority,
and keeping his hand fast on a serge covering which concealed the
contents of the basket slung before him.

Rather surprised at a deportment so unusual in an anxious trader, Tito went nearer and saw
two women go up to Bratti's basket with a look of curiosity, whereupon the pedlar drew the covering
tighter, and looked another way. It was quite too provoking, and one of the women was fain
to ask what there was in his basket?

"Before I answer that, Monna, I must know whether you mean to buy. I can't show such wares as
mine in this fair for every fly to settle on and pay nothing. My goods are a little too choice for
that. Besides, I've only two left, and I've no mind to soil them; for with the chances of
the pestilence that wise men talk of, there is likelihood of their being worth their weight
in gold. No, no: andate con Dio."

The two women looked at each other.

"And what may be the price?" said the second.

"Not within what you are likely to have in your purse, buona donna," said Bratti, in a compassionately
supercilious tone. "I recommend you to trust in Messer Domeneddio and the saints: poor people can
do no better for themselves."

"Not so poor!" said the second woman, indignantly, drawing out her money-bag. "Come, now! what
do you say to a grosso?"

"I say you may get twenty-one quattrini for it," said Bratti, coolly; "but not of me, for I haven't
got that small change."

"Come; two, then?" said the woman, getting exasperated, while her companion looked at her with
some envy. "It will hardly be above two, I think."

After further bidding, and further mercantile coquetry, Bratti put on an air of concession.

"Since you've set your mind on it," he said, slowly raising the cover,
"I should be loth to do you a mischief; for Maestro Gabbadeo used
to say, when a woman sets her mind on a thing and doesn't get it,
she's in worse danger of the pestilence than before.

Ecco! I have but two left; and let me tell you, the fellow to them is on the finger of Maestro
Gabbadeo, who is gone to Bologna--as wise a doctor as sits at any door."

The precious objects were two clumsy iron rings, beaten into the fashion of old Roman rings,
such as were sometimes disinterred. The rust on them, and the entirely hidden character of
their potency, were so satisfactory, that the grossi were paid without grumbling, and the
first woman, destitute of those handsome coins, succeeded after much show of reluctance on Bratti's
part in driving a bargain with some of her yarn, and carried off the remaining ring in triumph.
Bratti covered up his basket, which was now filled with miscellanies, probably obtained under the
same sort of circumstances as the yarn, and, moving from his pillar,
came suddenly upon Tito, who, if he had had time, would have chosen
to avoid recognition.

"By the head of San Giovanni, now," said Bratti, drawing Tito back to the pillar, "this is a piece
of luck. For I was talking of you this morning, Messer Greco; but, I said, he is mounted up among
the signori now--and I'm glad of it, for I was at the bottom of his fortune--but I can rarely get
speech of him, for he's not to be caught lying on the stones now--not he! But it's your luck,
not mine, Messer Greco, save and except some small trifle to satisfy me for my trouble in the
transaction."

"You speak in riddles, Bratti," said Tito. "Remember, I don't sharpen my wits, as you do, by driving
hard bargains for iron rings: you must be plain."

"By the Holy 'Vangels! it was an easy bargain I gave them. If a Hebrew gets thirty-two per cent,
I hope a Christian may get a little more. If I had not borne a conscience, I should have got
twice the money and twice the yarn. But, talking of rings, it is your ring--that very ring you've
got on your finger--that I could get you a purchaser for; ay, and a purchaser with a deep money-bag."

"Truly?"
said Tito, looking at his ring and listening.

"A Genoese who is going straight away into Hungary, as I understand. He came and looked all over
my shop to see if I had any old things I didn't know the price of; I warrant you, he thought
I had a pumpkin on my shoulders. He had been rummaging all the shops
in Florence.

And he had a ring on--not like yours, but something of the same fashion; and as he was talking
of rings, I said I knew a fine young man, a particular acquaintance of mine, who had a ring
of that sort. And he said, `Who is he, pray? Tell him I'll give him his price for it.' And
I thought of going after you to Nello's to-morrow; for it's my opinion of you, Messer Greco, that
you're not one who'd see the Arno run broth, and stand by without dipping your finger."

Tito had lost no word of what Bratti had said, yet his mind had been very busy all the while. Why should
he keep the ring? It had been a mere sentiment, a mere fancy, that had prevented him from
selling it with the other gems; if he had been wiser and had sold it, he might perhaps have
escaped that identification by Fra Luca. It was true that it had been taken from Baldassarre's
finger and put on his own as soon as his young hand had grown to the needful size; but there
was really no valid good to anybody in those superstitious scruples
about inanimate objects.

The ring had helped towards the recognition of him. Tito had begun to dislike recognition, which
was a claim from the past. This foreigner's offer, if he would really give a good price, was an opportunity
for getting rid of the ring without the trouble of seeking a purchaser.

"You speak with your usual wisdom, Bratti," said Tito. "I have no objection to hear what your
Genoese will offer. But when and where shall I have speech of him?"

"To-morrow, at three hours after sunrise, he will be at my shop, and if your wits are of that sharpness
I have always taken them to be, Messer Greco, you will ask him a heavy price; for he minds not
money. It's my belief he's buying for somebody else, and not for himself--perhaps for some great
signor."

"It is well," said Tito. "I will be at your shop, if nothing hinders."

"And you will doubtless deal nobly by me for old acquaintance' sake, Messer Greco, so I will not
stay to fix the small sum you will give me in token of my service in the matter. It seems to
me a thousand years now till I get out of the piazza, for a fair is a dull, not to say a wicked
thing, when one has no more goods to sell."

Tito made a hasty sign of assent and adieu, and moving away from the pillar, again found himself pushed
towards the middle of the piazza and back again, without the power of determining his own course.
In this zigzag way he was earned along to the end of the piazza opposite
the church, where, in a deep recess formed by an irregularity in the
line of houses, an entertainment was going forward which seemed to
be especially attractive to the crowd.

Loud bursts of laughter interrupted a monologue which was sometimes slow and oratorical, at
others rattling and buffoonish. Here a girl was being pushed forward into the inner circle
with apparent reluctance, and there a loud laughing minx was finding a way with her own elbows.
It was a strange light that was spread over the piazza. There were the pale stars breaking out
above, and the dim waving lanterns below, leaving all objects indistinct except when they were
seen close under the fitfully moving lights; but in this recess there was a stronger light,
against which the heads of the encircling spectators stood in dark relief as Tito was gradually pushed
towards them, while above them rose the head of a man wearing a white mitre with yellow cabalistic
figures upon it.

"Behold, my children!" Tito heard him saying, "behold your opportunity! neglect not the holy
sacrament of matrimony when it can be had for the small sum of a white quattrino--the cheapest
matrimony ever offered, and dissolved by special bull beforehand at every man's own will and pleasure.
Behold the bull!" Here the speaker held up a piece of parchment with huge seals attached to
it. "Behold the indulgence granted by his Holiness Alexander the Sixth, who, being newly elected
Pope for his peculiar piety, intends to reform and purify the Church,
and wisely begins by abolishing that priestly abuse which keeps too
large a share of this privileged matrimony to the clergy and stints
the laity.

Spit once, my sons, and pay a white quattrino! This is the whole and sole price of the indulgence.
The quattrino is the only difference the Holy Father allows to be put any longer between us
and the clergy--who spit and pay nothing."

Tito thought he knew the voice, which had a peculiarly sharp ring, but the face was too much in
shadow from the lights behind for him to be sure of the features. Stepping as near as he could,
he saw within the circle behind the speaker an altar-like table raised on a small platform,
and covered with a red drapery stitched all over with yellow cabalistical
figures.

Half-a-dozen thin tapers burned at the back of this table, which had a conjuring apparatus scattered
over it, a large open book in the centre, and at one of the front angles a monkey fastened by
a cord to a small ring and holding a small taper, which in his incessant fidgety movements fell more
or less aslant, whilst an impish boy in a white surplice occupied himself chiefly in cuffing
the monkey, and adjusting the taper. The man in the mitre also wore a surplice, and over it
a chasuble on which the signs of the zodiac were rudely marked in black upon a yellow ground.
Tito was sure now that he recognised the sharp upward-tending angles of the face under the
mitre: it was that of Maestro Vaiano, the mountebank, from whom he had rescued Tessa. Pretty
little Tessa! Perhaps she too had come in among the troops of contadine.

"Come, my maidens! This is the time for the pretty who can have many chances, and for the ill-favoured
who have few. Matrimony to be had-- hot, eaten, and done with as easily as berlingozzi! And
see!" here the conjuror held up a cluster of tiny bags. "To every bride I give a Breve with
a secret in it--the secret alone worth the money you pay for the matrimony. The secret how
to--no, no, I will not tell you what the secret is about, and that makes it a double secret.
Hang it round your neck if you like, and never look at it; I don't say that will not be the
best, for then you will see many things you don't expect: though if you open it you may break
your leg, e vero, but you will know a secret! Something nobody knows but me! And mark--I give you
the Breve, I don't sell it, as many another holy man would: the quattrino is for the matrimony,
and the Breve you get for nothing. Orsu, giovanetti, come like dutiful sons of the Church and
buy the Indulgence of his Holiness Alexander the Sixth."

This buffoonery just fitted the taste of the audience; the fierucola was but a small occasion,
so the townsmen might be contented with jokes that were rather less indecent than those they
were accustomed to hear at every carnival, put into easy rhyme by the Magnifico and his poetic
satellites; while the women, over and above any relish of the fun, really began to have an
itch for the Brevi.

Several couples had already gone through the ceremony, in which the conjuror's solemn gibberish
and grimaces over the open book, the antics of the monkey, and even the preliminary spitting,
had called forth peals of laughter; and now a well-looking, merry-eyed youth of seventeen, in
a loose tunic and red cap, pushed forward, holding by the hand a
plump brunette, whose scanty ragged dress displayed her round arms
and legs very picturesquely.

"Fetter us without delay, Maestro!"
said the youth, "for I have got to take my bride home and paint her
under the light of a lantern."

"Ha! Mariotto, my son, I commend your
pious observance..." The conjuror was going on, when a loud chattering
behind warned him that an unpleasant crisis had arisen with his monkey.

The
temper of that imperfect acolyth was a little tried by the over-active
discipline of his colleague in the surplice, and a sudden cuff administered
as his taper fell to a horizontal position, caused him to leap back
with a violence that proved too much for the slackened knot by which
his cord was fastened. His first leap was to the other end of the
table, from which position his remonstrances were so threatening that
the imp in the surplice took up a wand by way of an equivalent threat,
whereupon the monkey leaped on to the head of a tall woman in the
foreground, dropping his taper by the way, and chattering with increased
emphasis from that eminence. Great was the screaming and confusion,
not a few of the spectators having a vague dread of the Maestro's
monkey, as capable of more hidden mischief than mere teeth and claws
could inflict; and the conjuror himself was in some alarm lest any
harm should happen to his familiar. In the scuffle to seize the monkey's
string, Tito got out of the circle, and, not caring to contend for
his place again, he allowed himself to be gradually pushed towards
the church of the Nunziata, and to enter amongst the worshippers.

The
brilliant illumination within seemed to press upon his eyes with palpable
force after the pale scattered lights and broad shadows of the piazza,
and for the first minute or two he could see nothing distinctly. That
yellow splendour was in itself something supernatural and heavenly
to many of the peasant-women, for whom half the sky was hidden by
mountains, and who went to bed in the twilight; and the uninterrupted
chant from the choir was repose to the ear after the hellish hubbub
of the crowd outside. To one who expressed surprise
that a man of his solid achievement should receive but a subordinate post as that to which
he was assigned on his return to England, General Wellesley said, "I am NIM MUK WALLAH, as
we say in the East. I have eaten of the King's salt and therefore I conceive it to be my duty
to serve with zeal and cheerfulness when and wherever the King or his government may think
fit to employ me." This expression explains his lifelong attitude toward the crown. He considered
himself its "retained servant."

It was two years before his talents were properly utilized. Meanwhile he was member of Parliament
and secretary to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland. The Peninsular War was his opportunity. Napoleon
had sent Marshal Junot to Lisbon with an army to seize the country and force it into his continental
system, the royal family retiring to Brazil as he advanced. At almost the same time, by a series
of conscienceless machinations, he had compelled the King of Spain to abdicate, and had occupied
Madrid and the fortresses of the northern provinces. In spite of popular risings against the
French, Napoleon made his brother Joseph King of Spain. At once revolt flamed out among the
common people, and the insurrection spread through both kingdoms, and was accepted in England
as an invitation to come to their relief.

Pitt had foreseen amid the shadows of the defeat of Austerlitz that the Iberian Peninsula might
be the final field of resistance to Napoleon, and now events had brought his successors to
the same view. It was accessible by England's ocean highway, its people were high-spirited,
and impatient of foreign domination, and a successful campaign there would threaten the French
flank. In June, 1808, an expedition was dispatched to the aid of the Spanish and Portuguese
insurrectionists, and the command was given to Lieutenant-General Sir Arthur Wellesley. The
night before he left London he said to the friend who interrupted his reverie, "Why, I am thinking
of the French. . . . 'Tis enough to make one thoughtful. But no matter; my die is cast. They
may overwhelm me, but I don't think they will out-manueuver me. . . . I suspect all the continental
armies were more than half-beaten before the battle was begun. I at least will not be beaten
beforehand."

The qualities which fitted this officer for the heavy work in hand were those which had been
developed and tested in India. He was, first of all, a worker of surpassing industry and the
closest application. Where others were brilliant, he was thorough. No commander ever left less
to chance or to the inspiration of the moment. He prepared for his campaigns by subjecting
his troops to the most thorough drill and by providing them properly with all the munitions
of war. His troops were shaped by incessant care and pains into a perfect weapon, the use of
which he perfectly understood. Further than this, his experience in India, where conditions
had made him the responsible administrator of vast native states, made him the right man to
conduct a campaign in the peninsula, where, between the French and the Nationalists, civil
administration had fallen into great disorder, and where all sorts of extraordinary tasks devolved
upon the British representative. His management of his uncertain allies, the guerrilla chiefs,
and his relations with the revolutionary "juntas" called for qualities as rare as those which
defeated one after another of Napoleon's marshals and finally worsted the great captain himself.
Thoroughness of preparation, the ability to see things as they are, to wait patiently, decide
promptly, and act with energy--these are perhaps simple military virtues, but they bring success,
and they were in high degree the possession of the young Indian officer, who was now to undertake
a difficult campaign in a foreign country. The event proved that with such qualities a general
may compass the most difficult tasks, though he may be "cold" in temperament, and incapable
of kindling in the breasts of his men that passionate personal devotion which some hold to
be the true test of a great soldier.

Wellesley disembarked his expeditionary force in August, at Mondego Bay, a hundred miles north
of Lisbon, which Junot held with twelve thousand men. Junot advanced to meet the English, and
at Vimiero Wellesley met and defeated the first of Napoleon's marshals. Before the close of
the day the arrival of a superior officer terminated Wellesley's command. He had, however,
inflicted such a blow that Junot was glad to sign a convention which permitted him to evacuate
the kingdom. Wellesley returned to England.

In the spring of 1809 Wellesley was back in Lisbon. He had persuaded the government that Portugal
could be defended and made the base of operations which should eventually clear the entire
peninsula of the French. They had intrusted the chief command to him, and now left him free
for four years to press his campaigns to the Spanish capital, and thence to the Pyrenees and
beyond upon the very soil of France itself.

He was watched by two French armies. Soult was at Oporto in the north, and Victor far up the
Tagus Valley, between him and Madrid. By an unexpected movement, having surprised Soult and
sent him headlong beyond the frontier, Wellesley crossed the border in quest of Victor. The
armies clashed at Talavera, in the last days of June, in one of the most stubbornly contested
engagements of the war. The English kept possession of the field, and, though Joseph Bonaparte
congratulated his soldiers upon the glory of the "victory," he knew in his heart, as his greater
brother told him to his face, that the battle was a French defeat.

Conditions were not yet suited for an advance into Spain, where the French were gathering in
enormous force, with instructions from Napoleon to "advance upon the English, pursue them without
cessation, beat them, and fling them into the sea." To insure his forces against the execution
of this mandate Wellesley constructed a crescent of earthworks about Lisbon, "the lines of
Torres Vedras," within which he might take refuge, and under cover of which, as a last resort,
his forces might be safely re- embarked for retreat. The veteran Massena was selected by the
Emperor to drive the English out of Portugal. As he advanced, in the summer of 1810, Wellesley
retired before him, and just when the pursuer believed the game was his, he was confronted
by the impregnable lines of Torres Vedras, whose position and strength was all unsuspected.
All winter Massena hovered about the hole, but the fox was safe in his earth, and in the spring
the old hound again turned his face toward Spain, with the English on his trail.

For another year the English general, who, in honor of Talavera, had been raised to the peerage
as Viscount Wellington, was engaged in reducing the French garrisons, and forming into useful
auxiliary troops the raw Portuguese who had risen against the invader. The capture of the fortress
of Ciudad Rodrigo (January, 1812) opened the road to Spain. So important was this point that
the captor was rewarded for it with an English earldom, a Spanish dukedom, and a Portuguese
marquisate. In early summer Wellington's army took the offensive on Spanish soil. Marshal Marmont's
army at Salamanca in the north was his first objective. The clash came on the 22nd of July.
On the second day of the battle of Salamanca the English infantry crushed the weakened center
of Marmont's line, the marshal was wounded, his army hurriedly retreated. On the 12th of August
the English were in Madrid. The Bonaparte King fled from his capital, whose citizens, intoxicated
with joy, crowded around the English general, hung on his stirrups, touched his clothes, and
throwing themselves on the earth, blessed him aloud as the friend of Spain!

The work of deliverance was by no means complete. Wellington's army was small, and the support
of the Spanish auxiliaries was not to be counted upon. Though the Emperor was in Russia, some
of his best marshals and a powerful army were opposed to the English in Spain. It was only
the most skilful management, in which caution and audacity were blended, that brought Wellington
safely out of his dangerous position in Spain, and allowed him to retire to winter quarters
on the Portuguese frontier. The effect of the campaign upon the Spaniards had been to give
him the chief command of the national forces. England realizing that the general whose coming
had been so long awaited was found at last, made Wellington a marquis, and voted him the thanks
of the Lords and Commons and one hundred thousand pounds, besides sending him the reinforcements
of cavalry which he needed for his broad plan of operations for the next campaign.

The winter of 1812-13, which Wellington devoted to his comprehensive preparations, saw the
disastrous retreat of Napoleon from the snows of Russia. From that blow he never recovered,
and thenceforward he could do little to support his eagles in the peninsula. The recall of
Soult further weakened the resistance. In May, Wellington bade farewell to Portugal and recrossed
the Spanish frontier, advancing on Madrid from the northwest. The King and his army retired
toward France. But my obsoleteness rendered me only more suited to the service in which I was enlisted.
Honest Roger, the red-haired coachman, would have looked like a clown in a pantomime, in front
of a fashionable equipage; and Simon the footboy, who slouched at
my back, would have been mistaken for an idle urchin surreptitiously
enjoying a ride.

But on my unsophisticated dickey and footboard no one could doubt but that Roger and Simon
were in their proper places.
 Soult, forced away from Bayonne, fell back on Toulouse, where
Wellington dealt him another blow on April 14, 1814. That blow was the last. Just one week
earlier Napoleon, driven back from the Rhine to Paris by the allied armies on the northeast,
had abdicated the throne which had cost so much blood and treasure.

Wellington visited Paris and Madrid, and then returned to London. Five years earlier he had
left England as Sir Arthur Wellesley; he came back Duke of Wellington. His own remark upon
his campaigns contrasts strangely with the spirit of the Frenchman, whose best generals he
had out-manoeuvered and overwhelmed. He was "a conqueror without ambition," he said. "All the
world knew that I desired nothing but to beat the French out of Spain and then go home to my
own country, leaving the Spaniards to manage theirs as they pleased." England lavished honors
upon the hero of the Peninsular War. Parliament thanked him, granted him four hundred thousand
pounds. He carried the sword of state on the occasion of the peace celebration in St. Paul's
Cathedral. London banqueted him in Guildhall.

For a summer and a winter the Duke represented England at Paris and Vienna where the states
of Europe were wrangling over the restoration of the continent to its antebellum condition.
When Napoleon escaped from Elba and was welcomed to Paris by his former marshals, Europe turned
to Wellington to deliver her from the new peril. On the 25th of March, 1815, Austria, Russia,
Prussia, and Great Britain formed the Quadruple Alliance, binding themselves to maintain the
treaty recently signed at Paris, and not to lay down arms until "Buonaparte should be placed
absolutely beyond possibility of exciting disturbance and renewing his attempts to possess
himself of the supreme power in France."

The Duke arrived at Brussels on the 4th of April to take command of the allied army. Instead
of the grand armies of the Quadruple Alliance he found a composite force of some twenty-five
thousand English, Dutch, Belgians, Brunswickers, and Hanoverians. The Prussians had thirty
thousand men within co-operating distance. In comparison with the thoroughly disciplined army
which he had developed and wielded so skilfully in the peninsula this force cut a sorry figure.
The field-marshal's bitterest complaint was that his government had not even provided him with
the admirable staff which five years of service had made so familiar with his methods and desires.
On the very verge of the campaign he wrote, "I have an infamous army, very weak and ill equipped,
and a very inexperienced staff." While the armies of Austria and Russia were advancing upon
France the Emperor was setting an enormous force in the field. It was his purpose to fall upon
the army on the Belgian frontier before the other allies could enter France. For the invasion
of Belgium he selected one hundred and twenty-five thousand men. Prince Blucher, commanding
the Prussians, now had as many men, while Wellington, his ally, commanded some ninety- three
thousand, of whom barely one-third were British. Five- sixths of the British infantry had never
been under fire.

Napoleon's plan was to thrust his army between Blucher and Wellington and defeat them in succession.
On the evening of June 15th, news was brought to the Duke at Brussels that the enemy had passed
the frontier and were engaging the Prussian outposts. He at once gave the necessary orders
for the advance, and after midnight showed himself at the now famous ball of the Duchess of
Richmond. At eleven the next forenoon he was at QuatreBras, where his army was engaged in beating
off an attack by Marshal Ney, while Blucher was being pounded by Napoleon a few miles to the
eastward at Ligny. Both the allies retreated, but instead of separating as Napoleon hoped and
believed, they retired along converging lines, the English to Waterloo, the Prussians to Wavre,
the positions being connected by a roadway. Through the rain of Saturday, June 17th, Wellington
disposed his sixty-nine thousand men and one hundred and fifty-six guns on both sides of the
Brussels highway, along which Napoleon advanced on the morrow with seventy-two thousand men
and two hundred and forty cannon. The action opened near noon on the 18th, the French making
a vain effort to carry the Château of Hougomont on the British right. Next an army corps was
hurled at the center, only to be stopped by Wellington's cavalry with appalling loss. In the
afternoon the Emperor delivered a series of cavalry attacks upon the allied center. Twelve
thousand horsemen thundered up the gentle slope past the English guns, only to break against
the bayonet-hedged squares of the infantry. At the end of eight hours' fighting the French
center had advanced to within sixty yards of the British position, but the line still held,
and Blucher's Prussians were rapidly coming up on the right flank. Marshal Grouchy having failed
to prevent this fatal manoeuver, Napoleon shot his last bolt, sending Ney with the Old Guard
against the British right. But "the bravest of the brave had fought his last battle," and as
his ten battalions were flung back in disorder, Wellington gave the word to his whole line
to advance. The rush of his reserves of horse scattered the remnants of the tired and disheartened
host. The wreck of the grand army drifted back over the border, and the dispirited Emperor,
having risked everything in one bold experiment and lost, hastened to Paris, and after a vain
attempt to rally the nation once more about his standard, abandoned hope and sought refuge
on board the "Bellerophon," British man-of-war (July 15, 1815). At nine o'clock in the evening
of the memorable day of Waterloo, Blucher and Wellington met. The grizzled Prussian kissed
the grave Englishman on both cheeks in the exuberance of his joy. Without the timely support
of his Germans, that day might have had another ending.

Waterloo was the last act of the Napoleonic struggle. The Emperor went into exile at St. Helena
to fret against his prison bars and curse his keepers. Wellington had already exhausted his
country's sources of honor. All that Parliament could do was to present the fine estate of
Strathfieldsaye to him and his heirs on condition of presenting a French tri-color flag to
the sovereign at Windsor on each anniversary of the 18th of June.

Wellington was above all a soldier, but for the remaining thirty- six years of his lifetime
his country had little employment for the sword. Yet the esteem in which he was held, not only
for his military achievements, but for his honesty and common sense, made him a conspicuous
figure in public affairs for most of his long life. After Waterloo he remained in France, where
his moderation saved Paris from the vengeance of the continental commanders. Of the allied
army of occupation which remained in France until 1818, Wellington was commander-in-chief.
As head of the commission which passed upon the foreign claims for damages arising from the
protracted wars, his fairness again saved France from her rapacious creditors.

His work on the continent done, Wellington returned to England to enter the public service
as a member of Lord Liverpool's cabinet. In 1822 he was sent to represent Great Britain at
the Congress of the Powers at Verona, where he frustrated Russia's intention of interfering
in the affairs of Spain. In 1826 he was sent to Russia on a special mission from Canning to
secure the consent of the new Czar to English intervention in behalf of the insurgent Greeks.
On the death of the King's brother, the Duke of York, he became commander-in-chief of the army.
Disagreement with Canning led him to withdraw from that premier's cabinet in April, 1827, but
in the following January (1828), he himself became Prime Minister, with Robert Peel as Home
Secretary. With all his Tory loyalty to the Church his administration broke its ancient monopoly.
In 1828 he allowed the Test and Corporation Acts to pass, opening the way for Protestant dissenters
to hold civil and military office. In 1829 he concluded that relief of the Roman Catholics
of Ireland from their political disabilities could no longer be postponed. Peel had been even
more reluctant than his chief--a native of Ireland--to reach this decision, but the growing
power of the "Catholic Association," the popular organization which the agitator O'Connell
had called into existence, compelled immediate action. The King was reluctantly brought to
see the expediency of the act, which, when proposed by Pitt a generation before, had so stiffened
the neck of his father, George III. Perhaps no minister whose prestige was less than that of
the hero of Waterloo could have won the consent of the Hanoverian monarch, whose dynasty had
been brought to England for the defense of the Protestant faith. The bill for the emancipation
of the Catholics slid easily through the Commons, though the stiff old Tories who had counted
Wellington as of their number voted solidly against it. Even the Lords failed to make the expected
resistance, and accepted the measure by a vote of two to one despite the known preference of
the court and clergy, and a bombardment of Protestant petitions. One peer had thus predicted
the result to Macaulay, who was in doubt as to how the Duke would explain the bill and justify
his change of front: "0, that will be simple enough. He'll say, 'My Lords! Attention! Right
about face! Quick march!' and the thing will be done." King George tried to slip out of his
pledges, but the Iron Duke held him fast, and the 13th of April, 1829, the act became a law.
It is the chief monument of the Wellington administration.

Against the next great question, the reform of Parliament, he set himself resolutely, expressing
his opposition in such unmistakable terms as to forfeit at once his office and his popularity.
The London mob stoned his windows, but could not change his attitude toward legislation which
he thought pernicious to the welfare of his country. He carried on his opposition when the
reform bills began to come up from the Commons into the Peers' chamber. On the 18th of June,
1832, the seventeenth anniversary of Waterloo, he was pelted with stones and dirt by a yelling
mob in the streets of London, and only saved from rougher handling by two old soldiers who
walked at his stirrups and held back the ruffians until the police came to the rescue. The
Reform Bill had already become a law, Wellington and his irreconcilable friends, perceiving
the futility of further obstruction, absenting themselves from the chamber rather than vote
contrary to their consciences. Even after the reformed Parliament had come into existence this
arch aristocrat could see nothing but evil in the outlook. He complained that the House of
Commons "had swallowed up all the power of the state," and he was not far wrong. Still his
loyalty to the crown, and his determination that the government should be upheld kept him from
merely factious opposition and made him a useful servant of the nation. The leader of the majority
in the House of Lords, he declined to use his position to thwart the purposes of the popular
House. "I do not choose," he said, in 1834, when the Poor Law Bill was up, "I do not choose
to be the person to excite a quarrel between the two Houses of Parliament. The quarrel will
occur in its time; and the House of Lords will probably be overwhelmed. But it shall not be
owing to any action of mine." It was in this year that a singular occurrence showed his unique
place in the confidence of King and nation. In November the King dismissed the Melbourne ministry
and called on the Duke to form another. The latter perceived that no Tory but Peel could manage
the Commons, but Peel was then traveling on the Continent. The Duke accordingly undertook to
carry on the government alone until that leader's return. And for five weeks he was the cabinet,
holding all the high offices--Treasury, Home, Foreign, and Colonial--himself, so as not to
embarrass his successor by making appointments. The Whigs raised a great outcry against this
one- man power, but the people rather admired the industry of the veteran who rose at six o'clock
in the morning and went the rounds of the departments performing the routine duties with the
greatest industry and fidelity and steadily refusing to use his enormous power and patronage
for personal or factional rule. Sir Herbert Maxwell, the Duke's latest biographer, has attempted
to describe the Duke's political creed by coining a term. He was not "an impracticable Tory,"
as the Reformers would name him, nor yet a mere "Tory opportunist," as sterner Tories would
have it. "He was a possiblist rather than an opportunist, prepared to resist change as long
as possible, but to give way rather than throw the power into the hands of those (Radicals)
who, he honestly believed, would wreck the realm."

Wellington was foreign secretary in Peel's first cabinet (1834- 35), and commander-in-chief
in the second (1841-46). His lifelong political theory is well exemplified by his words when
notified by the Prime Minister, in November, 1845, of his intention to suspend the Corn Laws,
an act most offensive to his party and social class. "My only object in public life is to support
Sir Robert Peel's administration of the government for the Queen. A good government for the
country is more important than Corn Laws." In much the same words the aged leader addressed
the House of Lords in behalf of Peel's Corn Bill, and though bitterly opposed to the measure,
they accepted his guidance and gave the bill their assent. In 1848 there were many who believed
that the country was on the brink of a revolution. The Chartist agitation was culminating in
the presentation of the great petition to Parliament, and half a million men were to escort
it from Kennington to Westminster. Wellington was nearing his seventy- ninth birthday, but
the government turned to him to organize the defense of the capital against mob violence. The
old warrior- blood warmed in his veins, and he amazed the ministers by the clearness of his
plans and the energy and decision with which he carried them out. Though the affair passed
off without disturbance, being at all times under police control, so thorough were the Duke's
preparations as to have made a successful revolution impossible.

To his latest year the Duke continued to attend the sessions of the Lords, and his opinions
were listened to with respectful attention. It was fitting that his last speech there should
have been in a military debate, and that in urging the value of militia organization, he should
have drawn upon his experience with the raw Hanoverian levies in the Waterloo campaign. This
was in the summer of 1852. On the evening of the 13th of the following September he retired
in his usual condition of health. The next morning he was seized with sudden illness and did
not live the day out.

Enough has been said in this brief sketch of his public career to show that the Duke of Wellington,
though among the greatest of English soldiers, cannot rank high among English statesmen, although
he served his country in the highest offices. If read in detail the record of his career in
the Cabinet and in the House of Lords would confirm the reader in the opinion that his only
sure title to greatness rests in his military career. It has often been said that, had he died
in the moment of victory as did Nelson, it would have been happier for his fame. But it must
not be forgotten that the years of his political action were those in which England was passing
through the stages of a social and political revolution, in which the democracy was rising
to power and the landed aristocracy was losing prestige and privilege. That this revolution
was accomplished without such a convulsion as marked this struggle in other European kingdoms
may have been due, in some degree at least, to the fact that the leader of the aristocratic
Party was held in honor by the masses of the nation. Moments of exasperation there were when
the bitterness of popular feeling against the obstructionists in the House of Lords vented
itself upon the Duke, but the prevailing feeling toward him was one of pride in his military
achievements and confidence in his honesty. As McCarthy has well said, "His victories belonged
to the past. They were but tradition, even to middle-aged persons in the Duke's later years.
But he was regarded still as the embodiment of the national heroism and success--a modern St.
George in a tightly buttoned frock coat and white trousers!"

QUESTIONS FOR REVIEW

1.  What share had England taken in the French struggle previous to 1802? 2.  What did the
Peace of Amiens prove to be? 3.  In what ways and with what success did England struggle against
Napoleon up to the Peninsular War? 4.  Describe the early life of Wellesley. 5.  What military
experience did lie gain in India? 6.  What policy did Napoleon pursue in Spain and Portugal?
7.  What qualities fitted Wellesley to command the Peninsular Campaign? 8.  Describe Wellington's
campaigns up to 1813? 9.  How was the Peninsular War finally closed? 10. Describe the struggle
at Waterloo. 11. What important acts relative to church questions were enacted under Wellington's
ministry? 12. What was his attitude toward the Reform Bill? 13. What curious instance of "one-man
power" did he illustrate in 1834? 14. How was his character shown in his position regarding
the Corn Laws? 15. How does he rank among great English leaders?

BIBLIOGRAPHY

LIFE OF WELLINGTON.            By W. Herbert Maxwell. HISTORY OF THE PENINSULAR WAR. By Sir
William F. P. Napier. SELECTED DESPATCHES OF THE DUKE OF WELLINGTON. Edited by S. J. Owen.
THE CAMPAIGN OF WATERLOO.      By John C. Ropes, The best recent "Life of Wellington" is by
Sir Herbert Maxwell. 2 vols. London. The great "History of the Peninsular War" is by Sir Wm.
Napier.

III

GEORGE CANNING AND EUROPEAN AFFAIRS

[GEORGE CANNING, born, London, April II, 1770; died, London, August 8, 1827; educated at Eton
and Oxford; Member of Parliament, 1793; 1797, editor of Anti-Jacobin periodical; 1807- 09,
Secretary for Foreign Affairs; 1809, duel with Castlereagh; 1814-16, Ambassador at Lisbon;
1817-20, President of India Board; 1822, appointed Governor-General of India; 1822-27, Minister
for Foreign Affairs; 1827, Prime Minister and First Lord of the Treasury. Buried in Westminster
Abbey.]

During the first twenty years of the nineteenth century Great Britain, though possessing the
most liberal constitution of any of the powers, was the consistent ally of the absolute monarchies
of Europe. Strange as the situation at first appears, it is not difficult to trace the causes
which produced it.

For the explanation of most of the phenomena of European history in the first half of the century
the student must turn back to the French Revolution. The social and political ideas which were
at the bottom of that great upheaval were in part suggested by the success of free institutions
in constitutional England, where parliamentary government had been highly developed while France
lay bound by her Bourbon despots. A large body of Englishmen numbering some of the greatest
names in politics and literature sympathized deeply with the earlier manifestations of the
revolutionary spirit.

"Bliss was it in that dawn to be alive, But to be young was very heaven"

sang Wordsworth, whose youthful enthusiasm over that dawn was soon chilled by the crimes which
were committed in the name of Liberty--the slaughter of the royal pair, the reign of the guillotine,
and the enthronement of reason in the place of God. The tide of opinion in England was turned
by these scenes of lawless license, and when, in 1793, the revolutionary government of France
offered its armed aid to all oppressed peoples, England, led by William Pitt, joined Austria
and Prussia in a war to suppress the dangerous republic, and restore the Bourbon dynasty to
its ancient throne. Seven successive coalitions were thus formed by English diplomacy between
1793 and 1815 to meet the changing phases of the struggle which, after 1803, had ceased to
be monarchy against democracy and had become a universal war for self-preservation from Napoleon,
the military genius who had made himself the dictator of revolutionary France. When the great
war seemed to have come to an end, in 1814-15, and Napoleon was finally caged at St. Helena,
England found herself naturally taking a principal part in re-establishing the Bourbon Louis
XVIII. on the throne of France. She had stood with the other powers so long against a common
foe that she continued to stand with them now in undoing, as far as might be, the work which
the disturbing and renovating conqueror had wrought in the kingdoms which he had overrun. Not
only were the old boundaries generally restored and the exiled monarchs brought back to replace
the upstart Bonaparte kings, but the constitutional freedom which the French arms had introduced
in many parts of Europe was annulled wherever possible. The Congress of Vienna, in which the
allied powers formulated their policy, did its best to turn back the shadow twenty years on
the dial of progress, and England either joined in the effort or stood by consenting to the
death of so many newly won liberties.

When the allied sovereigns were met in Napoleon's capital after Waterloo, the Czar of Russia
conceived a thought which seemed to him to be an inspiration. In the ecstasy of the hour of
deliverance from the sword which had been the nightmare of the continent for a generation Alexander
proposed to his fellow potentates a covenant binding them to be governed by the principles
of Christian justice and charity in their dealings with their own subjects and in their mutual
relations. Sincere and pious as the Czar undoubtedly was, this agreement, which was accepted
by the other monarchs, excepting George IV. of England, did not produce the results which one
might suppose from its name, the Holy Alliance. It was used not only to stifle the spirit of
liberty in western Europe, but its baleful influence was felt in Italy, Spain, and Greece.
In effect it was a trades- union in which the allied crowned-heads undertook to stifle popular
liberty wherever it showed signs of life. When Alexander explained his proposal to the English
commissioners at Paris they could scarcely keep a straight face at its absurdity. Yet though
England refused to become a member of the Holy Alliance, she did allow herself for a period
of several years to be ruled by its decisions, or at least to allow them to be enforced without
a protest.

Such in brief was the chain of events which associated the foreign policy of England with that
of the Holy Alliance. The brilliant statesman who broke away from this foreign policy and led
England out upon a line of independent action was George Canning.

The future Foreign Secretary and Prime Minister was born in London, April II, 1770. His father
was an Englishman from the north of Ireland, who had read law, but failed to get clients, and
had succeeded at nothing, from pamphleteering to selling wine. He died on his babe's first
birthday. The widow married an actor and essayed a stage career. What would have become of
little George had he remained in his mother's company is an interesting speculation. An actor
called the attention of his uncle, a London banker, to the probability that the lad was on
the high road to the gallows--to which in those days more than one road led. This uncle, Stratford
Canning, assumed the responsibility of the child's education, sent him to Eton and later to
Oxford. At the former he distinguished himself by his witty contributions to "The Microcosm'--most
famous of school-boy periodicals--and at the University where he was graduated, B.A., in 1791
he won some distinction in literature and oratory, taking the University prize with his Latin
poem. At Oxford he passed through the "blissful dawn" of which Wordsworth sang, and was an
enthusiastic admirer of the French Revolution of 1789 and of the British Whigs who supported
it--Fox, Sheridan, and their sort. He came up to London as the tide was turning, and his own
opinion was among the first to change. Pitt, the Prime Minister, had been apprised of his talent,
sent for him, and had him "chosen" to the House of Commons, a simple matter in those unregenerate
days, when the Tory chieftains had their pockets full of boroughs.

Pitt gave Canning a minor government office--he was not yet thirty years of age--and treated
him almost as a son, the young man reciprocating the regard with a really filial devotion.
He was ambitious for advancement, and discontented with his slow promotion. In 1797, in company
with other choice spirits, he began the publication of The Anti-Jacobin, a weekly periodical
which for nearly a year held up to merciless ridicule that section of the British public which
still countenanced the ruling ideas of the French Revolution. When the King's refusal to yield
on the question of Catholic emancipation (1801) compelled Pitt to resign, Canning went out
of office with him. Addington, the stupid mediocrity who succeeded Pitt, provoked Canning's
pen to fresh lampoons, some of them long remembered for their savage personalities.

When Pitt resumed the premiership, in 1804, to direct the new struggle with Napoleon, he again
bestowed office upon Canning, and when he died, in 1806, Canning became the leader of the group
of Pittites who endeavored to perpetuate his ideas. In 1807 he entered the cabinet in the important
capacity of Foreign Secretary.

As Foreign Secretary under the spiritless premiership of the Duke of Portland, Canning was
allowed free hand. The two years and a half during which he directed the foreign office were
marked by a succession of moves which gave a new aspect to the contest with Napoleon.

Canning entered upon his duties just as the Fourth Coalition was being hammered to pieces,
on the same anvil which had destroyed the others. By the Treaty of Tilsit (July, 1807), Napoleon
prepared to unite the northern nations in his war on British commerce. Hearing or divining
his purpose to further this project by seizing the fleet of Denmark, Canning dispatched an
armed force to Copenhagen with a demand for the surrender of the Danish ships. The order was
executed, and the Danish vessels were brought back to England, though at the cost of a bombardment
of the Danish capital. The French Emperor's eye was fastened on the fleet of Portugal as another
auxiliary, and when the Regent refused to accede to his request, Napoleon dispatched Marshal
Junot to drive him from his kingdom and hold its ports and fortresses against England.

England now stood almost alone, and Napoleon hoped to complete her ruinous isolation by destroying
her trade with Europe. His "Continental System," which was to make the continent commercially
independent of Great Britain, was foreshadowed in his Berlin Decrees. Fresh decrees were now
met by fresh Orders in Council, "shutting out from the continent all vessels which had not
touched at a British port." It was Canning whose genius caught at the strategic possibilities
of a war in the peninsula (Spain-Portugal) as a practical opening on the French flank for a
final blow at the Napoleonic power. Napoleon's interference in the government of Spain by dethroning
its monarchs and giving the crown to his brother Joseph had exasperated that proud nation and
provoked the spirited people to arm against the intruder. The Portuguese were scarcely less
bitter against the French conqueror. Canning perceived the possibility of gaining a foothold
in these kingdoms, which were easily accessible by sea, and by utilizing the spirit and resources
of the aroused nations to consolidate a power there which would threaten France itself, whose
borders the great soldier had thus far kept inviolate. How ably Sir Arthur Wellesley fulfilled
Mr. Canning's desire the life of Wellington has already shown.

The Peninsular Campaign was scarcely under way when Canning and Castlereagh, the War Secretary,
quarreled and the former resigned from the cabinet. Yet from his place in the House the ex-minister
continued manfully to uphold the general who was doing England's work in Spain. There was need
of all the support his genius could contribute to this task, for parliament was slow to grasp
the deep purpose of the campaign, was impatient for results, and prone to grumble at the bill
of expense. Yet in the end Canning enjoyed the satisfaction of pointing to the complete verification
of his hopes. He might have been Foreign Minister in the Liverpool ministry at its outset (1812)
had he been willing to acquiesce in the leadership of Castlereagh in the House of Commons.
This would have given him the direction of English policy in those critical years in which
the Napoleonic empire was broken up and European affairs rearranged by the powers at Vienna.
He lived to regret this as the greatest error of his career. He was sufficiently humbled after
four years to join the government forces as president of the India board, resigning in 1820.
In 1821, when on the point of going out to India, of which he had been appointed governor-general,
his prospects suddenly changed. On the death of his rival, Castlereagh, Canning became Foreign
Secretary and leader of the Commons. The prize which he had long schemed to secure, and had
finally given up, suddenly fell into his hand. Canning's mind could not but revert to the lost
opportunity of 1812. Not in a century would the Foreign Minister again have a world to set
in order. He wrote to a friend, "Ten years have made a world of difference, and have made a
very different sort of world to bustle in than that which I should have found in 1812. For
fame it is a squeezed orange, but for public good there is something to do, and I shall try--but
it must be cautiously-- to do it. You know my politics well enough to know what I mean when
I say that for 'Europe' I shall be desirous now and then to read 'England.'" The closing sentence
was the keynote of his policy. For years it had been customary for representatives of the powers
to treat all important matters as "European questions," and England had become habituated to
a diplomacy which kept English interests in the background for the sake of the commonweal of
Europe--Europe and the Holy Alliance being synonymous. "When Castlereagh," said Canning, "got
among princes and sovereigns at Vienna, he thought he could not be too fine and complaisant."

When Canning began to represent England in her relations with foreign countries, he found the
Holy Alliance in full vigor. In fact, the Czar, Kaiser, and King had just met at Laybach (1821)
and issued a manifesto declaring that "useful and necessary changes in legislation and in the
administration of states could only emanate from the free will and from the intelligent and
well-weighed convictions of those whom God has made responsible for power. Penetrated with
this eternal truth, the sovereigns have not hesitated to proclaim it with frankness and vigor.
They have declared that, in respecting the rights and independence of legitimate power, they
regarded as legally null and disavowed by the principles which constituted the public right
of Europe, all pretended reforms operated by revolt and open hostilities." In plain terms the
three monarchs, claiming to rule by divine right, reasserted their determination to interfere
in the private affairs of any state to suppress movements which seemed to their majesties to
be revolutionary. The powers had already acted according to this program in Piedmont and Naples,
and were preparing to interfere in behalf of the Bourbons in Spain, the Spaniards in the revolted
American republics, and the Turks in Greece when Canning came to power. To the Congress of
Verona, where these and other questions were to be considered by the powers, Canning sent Wellington
to speak for England. In accordance with his instructions the duke stood for non- intervention. The
boy tested the halter, and patted the horse continually.

It was a very important thing to drive two miles in the dark for one's father and bring him
home from the nine o'clock express. Add to this situation the excitement of an excursion, and
Donny de Mone felt that life lacked nothing more to the position and the dignity of manhood.
Besides, Donny was very fond of his father, and had not seen him for two weeks.

Now, there was one curious thing about this crowd which would have been noticeable to a stranger,
but had not as yet attracted the attention of the residents. This was the extraordinary number
of animals that seemed to be waiting for this train. One would have thought that half the dogs
in the neighborhood had relatives coming from Columbia.

Stray goats and mules gazed expectantly up and down the track. Cats had followed their owners from
the houses and betrayed their devotion by subdued squeals from under their masters' regardless
heels. A brindle-brown pig wriggled its way among the crowd, grunting with persistent uneasiness;
while a couple of wandering cows, unmolested by the strangely restless dogs, passed and repassed
the railroad crossing, bellowing monotonously. The horses at the station exhibited curious
discomfort; and Donny de Mone's venerable nag "Ben Bow" astonished the community by pulling at his
halter.

While the boy stood valiantly holding the bridle, an old Negro came up and pulled his sleeve.
He was a shabby old Negro. His lean knees protruded through his trousers,--a mass of patches from
under which the original material, like the jackknife in the mental philosophy problem, had wholly
disappeared. It was especially noticeable that tufts of white hair found their way through
the holes in his coon-skin cap. Across his shoulder he carried a bundle knotted into an old
red handkerchief with a polka spot.

"Say, boss, cud ye tell me whar a poah niggah cud fine a bit o' kivered hay to sleep on, an' a moufful
o' pone in de mauhnin? I'se footed it clean from Charleston. I'se gwine to Branchville whar
my dahter, Juno Soo, is a dyin' ob fever.

She ain't long foh dis wohl. I'se got money 'nuff foh de breffust."

He looked wistfully at the lad. Donny answered with the heartiness of a child who has been
brought up to think of others.

"My father will tell you when he comes in. I expect him every minute. But why don't you go to Kittie's."
He mentioned the name of a woman well known in Summerville for strong character and wise benevolence.
"She lives up the track there. Anybody will show you. She'll help you; she's the best colored
woman in town."

The old man turned away without answering. Perhaps he thought this a pleasant device on the boy's part
to get rid of him. Perhaps he meant to follow his counsel. Who can say? He plodded slowly up the
track and disappeared in the darkness.

I.

NOW, while Donny stood holding Ben Bow by the bridle, the old horse reared, plunged violently,
snapped his halter, and broke away. The boy, at the same instant, was hurled to the ground. The
ringing of hoofs and whir of wheels made strange sensations in his ears. He thought what a
fool he was to be knocked down by old Ben Bow.

Then he tottered to his feet.

Complete darkness had come. There was an unearthly silence. Then a moan, then a howl and a shriek
arose which reached from group to group, from house to house, from square to forest. Human and
animal cries blended in one piteous appeal for mercy.

Again the unknown power smote the lad to the earth, which had become a raging sea. It rocked--it
rolled. Terrified, the child no longer attempted to stand. He got down on his hands and knees and
crawled.

The trees whistled overhead.

Flocks of birds seemed to sing through the air, striking against the telegraph wires. The atmosphere,
which but a few moments ago reeked with heat, took on a grave-like chill. Again the earth heaved
and swayed beneath the frightened youngster, who fell upon his face, vainly clawing the ground
for the support which it denied him.

The station was only twenty yards away. There, all the people were in a turmoil. While endeavoring
to regain their feet, some were violently thrown upon the wooden platform. Others, holding
to the side of the building, felt with stupefaction the boards totter beneath their touch. Was
judgment at hand? Had the end of the world come? The terror of a nameless danger unmanned
the stoutest heart. Women shrieked and prayed. Men cursed and groaned.

Donny had now joined the stricken group. They huddled together until another shock threw them
one upon another. Delicate women became nauseated as if in mid-ocean.

Sturdy men who had faced bullets in the Civil War without wincing, lost self-control. They surged;
they fought; they comforted each other; they cried aloud.

At this moment a frightful tremor shook the earth. The station building gave sickening creaks;
then it toppled with a crash.

Yell now followed yell. The crowd, that but now waited the joyous greetings of friends, was
battered by the bruises of the earth and hurried by fright into a contagious state of mania.
The bodies and faces of the people changed almost beyond recognition. Maddened with fear, stunned
by the last concussion, they stampeded.

The cry rang from mouth to mouth: "To the woods! To the hill! Home! Home!! Home!!!" They swayed;
they rushed; they parted; they ran. Struck as by an invisible enemy, they fell prostrate in
the powdery dust. They picked themselves up again and panted in their
flight.

A voice close to Donny's side rang above the uproar: "Good Lord!

It is an earthquake!"

Like birds before a tornado, the people scattered to the right, to the left,--this way, that,
and were gone. Donny found himself, dazed and alone, upon the cross-ties, groping toward the oncoming
train. He thrust out his hands and stood a moment piteously crying, "Papä! Papä!" the most bewildered
little fellow in all that frightened town.

To crawl up the track, to meet the train, to board her, to shriek
at her, to get to his father, to cling to the cow-catcher, perhaps,
till the engineer stopped for sheer mercy,--this was the nearest approach
to a purpose that the child had, as he beat along the track, stumbling,
falling, up again, down again, shaken by the rolling earth, and blinded
by darkness more awful than he had ever seen or thought of.

A strange, thin dog, without a collar, whined at his feet as he pushed
on, and licked his hand and followed him like his own.

Huge, dim forms rushed alongside the embankment, making unearthly sounds. Dragons could not
have seemed more dreadful; but they were only cows. Huge pine-trees bent to the earth with
rapid, vibratory motion as if a giant's hand clutched and shook them by the roots.

All the time the awful rumbling of the earth went on; it sounded as if the world were turning
herself over, and thrashing to and fro in a fit of anger; before
every convulsion she uttered a roar which seemed as if it came from
a metal ball bowled along a giant alley beneath.

It reached its climax by trilling the letter =R-r-r-r-r!= in a mighty voice. Then came the
shock.

Suddenly, as the child was making his way through the horror and desolation of this scene,
he felt himself clasped in the outstretched arms of a figure hurrying
from the opposite direction.

The two came together in the dark with a jolt, and recoiled.

"Goramercy!" said a quavering voice. It was the speech of the old Negro track-walker, taking
two days to get to his dying daughter because he could not afford the railroad ticket that would
have brought him to her in two hours. Donny recognized the high, cracked, pathetic tones which
had addressed him at the station.

"De track's busted!" panted the Negro. "De rails is done gone twist
wid de shakes.

Dey lays like er heap ob corn-shuck in de win' up yander. Dat ar train don' know hit, an' she'll
go to Day ob Jedgment, an' ebery soul aboard ob her! I'se run like de nation fer to warn de town!"

"Oh,
there isn't any town to warn!" cried Donny. "It's all run off! There isn't anything left but
the earthquake and me--and this pup--and nobody to do anything--and my papä's aboard that
train! Oh, what shall we do? What shall we do?"

"Run, honey, run!" said the old man, more hopefully. "Mebbe we'll head her off some ways or
'nuther. Run for 't! Run!"

The dirty old black hand clasped the tender little white one, which nestled into it gratefully.
What it meant at that awful time not to be alone,--to feel a human touch, to know that a human heart
beat beside you,--one would have to be in the child's place to understand.

II.

THE

two ran, plunging up the distorted track which swelled and shook beneath them, toward the coming
train. As they came abreast of the second little station, known as the West End station of Summerville,
an idea shot like hope itself through the confused brain of the hurrying boy.

"I know where the torpedoes are!" he cried, shrilly. "The torpedoes they put down to stop trains!
I've seen 'em. I play with the superintendent's boys sometimes. If I was bigger I could bu'st open
the doors and windows and find 'em."

"I'se an ole man," shouted the Negro, "but I'se been a tough one befo' Freedom. I sole for two
thousand dollars onct. I kin smash 'most anythin' yer give me, honey, if hi'm put to 't. If der's
anythin' wantin' to be bu'sted to stop dat ar train, I reckon I kin bu'st."

Whirling along, in the dark and the uproar, the two panting figures rushed against the little
station. It was very dark. In a lull of the raging earth the distant whistle of the train could
be distinctly heard.

"In there!" cried the boy. "There! There! Oh, don't you think perhaps my papä took some other
train? Oh, she's coming! I'll help. I can help. Oh, the door's too big for me!"

But not too big for the ragged old arm that felled it down as an axe
fells the last rings of a stricken tree.

Not too big for the remnant of strength in the once muscular slave. Not too big for the fiery old heart
that trouble and toil and hunger and loneliness had never quenched.

The door went down--glass crashed--another door yielded--two wild figures fell into the superintendent's
private office. The little one climbed like a monkey upon a shelf he knew of, and then the
two rushed out of the rocking building into the resounding air, on which human shrieks smote
steadily, as it was said they did all that awful night. Again, the whistle of the train--near
now--nearer--

As the pathetic couple ran up the torn and twisted track, Donny began to sob aloud; but all he
said was, "Papä! Papä! Papä!"

"Gib 'em to me, sonny," said the Negro, with the authority of age and danger. "I kin run faster'n you,
honey! Goramercy, dar she am!"

The old man seized the torpedoes, and rushing away with them, vanished in the darkness. The unknown,
collarless dog followed him. Donny, sobbing and calling his father's name, pushed on as well as
he could by himself. As he ran he tried to say his prayers, but all he could remember was, "Our
Father who art in heaven."

Then he thought, how soon might his father on earth be father in heaven, too? He could not say that
prayer. The boy, like many an older and wiser than Donny, only cried instead of praying. As he
ran along in this sad fashion, something hit against him, whinnying in the dark. It was Ben
Bow, the horse he had ridden ever since he was a baby. Now, this comforted the lad incredibly,
to have one of the family with him.

III.

THE old man and the train were now face to face. The locomotive came cautiously, for the shocks
had penetrated far up the road, but too fast--far too fast. Where the track had gone to pieces,
a mass of twisted rails and tossing sleepers and furrowed earth, a bank--what is called a high bank
in Southern topography--raised itself just in the turn of time to have sent the derailed train
plunging down.

The old Negro watched the approaching flare of the head-light as he ran on, with a grim, defiant
eye.

"I stump ye!" he said aloud. He shook his trembling, black fist at the locomotive. Stumbling
along, his old bundle over one shoulder, and the torpedoes clutched in the other arm, being thus
encumbered--for it did not occur to him that he could throw away his bundle, he was so poor--he
tripped and fell. His foot caught; it is unknown in what,--in a twisted tie, or perhaps in
a crevice of the cracking earth.

When he tried to rise, something held the hero down. He reached his whole length forward flat
upon the road-bed, and with great precision and with a coolness that one cannot think of now
without emotion, he laid one torpedo on each rail, exactly where
it needs must lie to give the warning through the crushing wheel.

Now
for the second time the old man and the locomotive regarded each other.
Her fiery breath was close upon him. Above the uproar of the reeling
earth the shriek of the train sounded in his deafened ears. Once again,
the strong, black fist was clinched in the approaching monster's face.

"I
dare ye!" he cried. "Come on! I dare ye!" He pulled himself up with
a mighty wrench. But the unknown power held him. He felt the claws
of the cow-catcher. He gave one low cry:

"Lord, I'd like to got dar
an' seen Juno Soo afore she died--"

Then he closed his eyes, that
he might not see what would happen, clasped his hands above his gray
head, and gave his manly soul to God.

IV.

THE anxious and bewildered
passengers heard the snap! snap! of the torpedoes, and half of them
rushed to the platforms. The engineer signalled "Down brakes!" and
the train, with a mighty jolt, came to a stop. A heavy shock shook
the night at that instant. The smell of sulphur was strong in the
chilly air. The engineer got out with a lantern. The crowd gathered
in a moment. At the brink of the scattered track, at the very edge
of wreck and death, the train had come to a stand.

"Who did it?"
swept from lip to lip. No one was in sight.

"I thought we hit a man,"
said the engineer, swinging his lantern far out into the darkness.
But no sign, whether of the dead or of the living, was in sight,--nothing
except a half-starved, collarless dog, who sat stupidly upon the grass,
and who did not even wag his tail when the stoker spoke to him.

"Who
saved us? Who saved the train?"

Ask the disappointed vulture and
the mouth of the muttering earth to tell you, gentlemen passengers!
There is no other lip to answer.

* * * * *

Yes, there is one; a
little, trembling, ashy lip--a child's--scarcely able to articulate
for grief or terror, and pouring forth confused cries that nobody
can understand. The passengers have left the train, and are making
their way cautiously homeward down the devastated road-bed, where
the track had lain. It is hurled now to every point of the compass
in the wild night.

They come to a halt suddenly, before a little
huddling figure, with its face hidden in its arms, crouched beside
a crooked rail. An old horse, with traces hanging and harness a wreck,
stands snorting beside the boy.

"Donny! Donny! Why, my sonny boy!"

The
crowd parts for a thin, white-faced man,--the passenger who had been
heard to say upon the way, "My little son is coming to meet me. I
hope these shocks do not extend to the Summerville station."

There
is one other little wild call, "Papä! Papä!"--a tremendous effort
to be manly, and not cry before strangers--and the boy melts into
his father's arms, and wonders whose tears they are which rain upon
his cuddling face.

But who saved the train? Where is he? How did
he do it? Who took that noble risk? Where is the hero? Here?

"You,
my lad?"

Then Donny raised his awestruck face from his father's quick-beating
heart, and standing among the strangers and the neighbors, told the
story,--all that he knew; all that he could tell.

"I only remembered
the torpedoes, sir. The old man did the rest."

"What old man? Where
is he?"

"Why, the old colored man! Haven't you seen him? The old
colored man who ran ahead and put them on the track. He saved the
train."

The engineer took his lantern and silently went back and
swung the spot of fire in the black, cold air. It had not rained,
as we have said, for many weeks, but his feet splashed into deep pools
and running rivulets, and sank into crevices and gashes in the trembling
earth.

A few of the passengers followed the engineer. The locality
where the train stood was examined thoroughly. Again, the same result,--no
human creature, dead or living, was to be seen. The pauper dog sat
just where they had left him. The engineer went up and patted him.
At the touch he fell over--dead of fright.

They returned to report
what they had found. As they did so, they called and shouted into
the darkness, seeking for the brave life that had saved their own.
Only the roar of the earthquake answered them.

"But he must be there!"
cried the lad, "of course he's there. He's a very shabby old Negro.
He is all patches and his knees and hair stick out. His hat looked
like a coon-skin hat. His hair is gray hair. He carries a little bundle
on his shoulder. He's a very strong old Negro. He smashed the station
in like--like blocks. He was a slave, and he was so strong he cost
two thousand dollars. He's going to see his daughter in Branchville.
She's dying. He's so poor he had to walk from Charleston all the way.
He saved the train. You just look and you'll find him."

A mighty
shock drowned the boy's words at this moment, and seemed to jeer at
them. The chimney was of wrought iron, round which was a chamber
extending back to the feed pumps, for the purpose of heating the water previous to the injection
into the boiler. The engine had no springs, and was mounted on a wooden frame supported on
four wheels." The engine made its trial trip July 25, 1814, on which occasion it showed a speed
of four miles an hour in drawing a load of thirty tons. This engine was named "Blucher," after
the distinguished Prussian field-marshal.

Blucher was almost immediately improved by its inventor. First he doubled the steam-making
power of its boiler by turning the exhaust from the cylinders into the smoke-stack, thus creating
a forced draught. Second he built another engine, in which the tooth-wheel driving gear gave
way to a simple and direct connection between the piston and the driving wheels which rolled
upon the rails. This type of locomotive, developing some six miles an hour, did its work so
well in the colliery that it was retained, with very slight alterations, for more than half
a century. The report of its success got abroad slowly, and Mr. Stephenson was commissioned
to build a railway and a number of locomotives for a colliery in another shire. The success
of this piece of engineering encouraged him in sending his son Robert, a youth of fine promise,
to Edinburgh to study physical sciences in the university, where in his brief residence he
took a mathematical prize.

The year 1823 marked another forward step for George Stephenson and railroads. Two years before
a road had been chartered to connect the Durham coal-fields with tidewater. Stephenson heard
of the project, and at once proposed to the company to make an iron railroad of the new wooden
tramway and equip it with his traveling engines. His arguments and demonstrations won over
the skeptical directors. They had their charter amended so as to authorize the use of steam
as motive power for the transport of passengers as well as merchandise. Thus began the Stockton
and Darlington Railway, the first in the world with a passenger charter. The chief engineer
was George Stephenson, on a salary of five hundred pounds. At the same time, with the assistance
of the railroad people, he founded the locomotive shops at Newcastle.

The new railroad, the first public line, was opened in September, 1825. As its construction
progressed, its engineer had become increasingly sanguine of success. He said to his son Robert
at this time: "I venture to tell you that I think you will live to see the day when railways
will supersede almost all other methods of conveyance in this country--when mail coaches will
go by railway, and railroads will become the great highway for the King and all his subjects.
The time is coming when it will be cheaper for a workingman to travel upon a railway than to
walk on foot. I know there are great and almost unsurmountable difficulties to be encountered,
but what I have said will come to pass as sure as you live. I only wish I may live to see the
day, though that I can scarcely hope for, as I know how slow all human progress is, and with
what difficulty I have been able to get the locomotive thus far adopted, notwithstanding my
more than ten years' successful experiment at Killingworth."

The first train over the road was such an one as had never been seen before. George Stephenson
was at the lever when the engine pulled out with a string of eight cars behind it. One regular
passenger coach--the first ever built--held the directors, and twenty-one improvised passenger
"wagons" carried some six hundred daring individuals. Coal and flour filled the other cars.
The journey was safely accomplished at a speed which is said at times to have reached the hitherto
unheard of rate of twelve miles an hour. The road, with its three Stephenson locomotives and
many horses, was successful from the first, and its dividends were among the chief inducements
which led to the next and more important advance in railroad construction, the Liverpool and
Manchester line.

Manchester was the great manufacturing center of the industrial England, which the inventions
of Arkwright and Watt had called into existence. Its port was Liverpool. The natural means
of communication between the two cities was quite inadequate to the changed conditions. In
1821 surveys were made for a tramway, and before the Stockton road was completed Stephenson
had been selected as chief engineer of the new and more ambitious enterprise. Yet his assertion
that trains could be moved between the two cities at twenty miles an hour raised serious doubts
in many minds as to his sanity. A writer in the "Quarterly Review" thought that even though
a few foolhardy persons might trust themselves to a vehicle moving at such speed--twice that
of the swiftest stagecoaches--Parliament for the general welfare should limit the speed of
all railways to eight or nine miles an hour, as the greatest that could be ventured on with safety.

It was while the grant of a charter to this Liverpool and Manchester Railway was being discussed
in a committee of the House of Commons that the shrewd North Country engineer first faced the
trained Parliamentary lawyers. He had been cautioned to keep his figures for speed within the
most moderate limits so as not to prejudice the company's case, but his belief in his own invention
mastered his restraint, though as he afterward said, he did his best "to keep the engine down
to ten miles an hour." In fact, his daring prediction of twelve miles per hour struck the learned
counsel with horror. They objected that horses would fly in terror from such a monster. He
replied that horses had been known to shy at wheelbarrows. They tried to make him admit that
the wheels would slip on the smooth rails, but he knew that they would bite without teeth.
One of the committee said, "Suppose that a cow were to stray upon the line and get in the way
of the engine; would not that be a very awkward circumstance?" To which the countryman had
a ready reply, "Very awkward--for the cow!" The opposition, which was largely animated by the
existing canal interest, ventured some views which the experience of the next five years was
to make most ridiculous. They declared that the plan to carry the rails over the surveyed route
across Chat Moss, a wide morass, was impossible; and furthermore, that no locomotive could
make headway against the high winds which at times prevailed in that region. Experts were brought
to testify that "no engineer in his senses would go through Chat Moss if he wanted to make
a railroad from Liverpool to Manchester." "In my judgment," said one of them, "a railroad cannot
be made over Chat Moss without going to the bottom." The committee decided against the bill,
but at the next session Parliament granted the company the power to construct the road, the
question whether or not locomotives should be used upon it being left in abeyance. George Stephenson
was chosen to be chief engineer, at one thousand pounds a year.

Chat Moss was conquered by an ingenious device which practically floated the road-bed upon
its spongy surface. Tunnels were driven through the hills, deep cuttings were made wherever
needed, a ravine was crossed by a viaduct of brick and stone, and more than threescore bridges
were thrown across the streams. All the plans for this complicated work passed under the eye,
and many of them took their first form in the mind of the chief, whose skill as a mechanic
was for the time sunk in his genius for civil engineering. By dint of the most strenuous application,
and by the dominance of a spirit of perseverance which no discouragement or obstacle could
daunt, Stephenson brought the road to triumphant completion. The next thing was to convince
the directors that the steam locomotive was the proper equipment for a public railway. As a
beginning, he persuaded the company to place one of his engines upon its construction trains.
The experts who were employed to investigate the many proposed applications of power decided,
however, that the most feasible equipment was a series of twenty-one stationary engines located
at intervals along the right of way and hauling the cars stage after stage by means of a rope
wound upon a drum-the principle of the cable railway which afterwards had its day in our streets.
Still Stephenson would give the directors no peace. Finally, in order to settle the question
of the practical utility of the traveling engine, the company offered a prize of five hundred
pounds for the best locomotive engine, to be awarded after a competitive test upon certain
conditions, the most notable of which were:

"2. The engine of six tons weight must be able to draw after it, day by day, twenty tons weight
at ten miles an hour with a pressure of steam on the boiler not exceeding fifty pounds to the
square inch."

"4. The engine and boiler must be supported on springs and rest on six wheels, the height of
the whole not exceeding fifteen feet to the top of the chimney."

"7. The engine must be delivered complete and ready for trial at the Liverpool end of the railway
not later than the 1st of October, 1829."

"8. The price of the engine must not exceed five hundred and fifty pounds."

George Stephenson and his son Robert threw all their resources into the production of the locomotive
which was to carry their colors in the contest. The "Rocket" engine, which was built in their
Newcastle shop, was fitted with a tubular boiler six feet long and three feet four inches in
diameter. The fire-box was two feet wide and three feet high. On each side of the boiler at
its rear end was an oblique cylinder, the piston-rods being connected with the outside of the
two driving wheels, which were in front. The two rear wheels were about one-half the diameter
of the drivers. The tender, also fourwheeled, was a simple affair, the water being carried
in a large cask.

After a successful trial trip, the "Rocket," which weighed but four and a half tons, was sent
by wagon across England to Carlisle, and thence to Liverpool. It was one of four steam engines
entered in the competition which attracted wide attention. Among the entries was the "Novelty,"
the production of that talented Swede, John Ericsson, who afterwards, in America, built the
iron-clad "Monitor." The "Novelty" showed fine bursts of speed, but failed in point of endurance.
The "Perseverance" and "Sanspareil" developed radical defects, but the "Rocket," driven by
George Stephenson's own hand was prepared for every turn of the competition, and surpassed
all in power, speed, and general serviceability. To its makers the prize was unhesitatingly
awarded, whereupon the hardy engineer amazed every beholder by letting out the last link and
dashing past the grandstand at the rate of more than thirty miles an hour. The forced draft,
which had made the Killingworth freight engines so successful, coupled with the tubular boiler,
formed a combination which won the battle for the locomotive once for all, and made the name
of George Stephenson a household word.

A year later, on the 15th of September, 1830, the Manchester and Liverpool Railway was formally
opened. The Duke of Wellington-- the first citizen of the realm--was present with Sir Robert
Peel and other distinguished personages, together with a vast throng of sightseers, enthusiastic
spectators of the consummation of George Stephenson's dreams. Though marred by a fatal accident,
the occasion proved the entire practicability of the railway as a means of transportation.
The multitudes who rode in its cars on that memorable day were but a foretaste of the patronage
which the line was to receive. Although the intention of its projectors was to limit its traffic
chiefly to freight, the road from the first found its offices besieged by persons eager to
ride. Thus passenger traffic became established as its leading source of revenue, and thus
were the capitalists encouraged to prosecute the extension of the railway system to points
where the outlook for freight business was much less than between Liverpool and Manchester.
Though these roads were fiercely opposed by the landowners, the canal-men, and turnpike proprietors,
they were pressed forward in every direction. Robert Stephenson shared with his father the
responsibility of engineering some of the principal lines, though the two men had the grim
satisfaction of seeing the experts who had ridiculed the initial project now eagerly bidding
for the opportunity of conducting surveys for the new lines.

A mania for building railroads seized the world. The Stephensons were in demand not only throughout
Great Britain, but even on the Continent. They had already made a market for their engines
abroad, when, in 1835, they were summoned by the King of Belgium to assist in laying out a
system of railways for that kingdom. For his services here the engineer was knighted by the
King and banqueted at the royal table. Honored at home and abroad; happy in the general adoption
of the ideas to which he had clung through opposition and adversity; proud of the son Robert,
for whose education he had worked like a slave, and whom he now saw hailed as one of the great
engineers of the world; fortunate in business; respected and beloved by men of every class,
George Stephenson spent the closing years of his life in affluence and ease. He had earned
his peace, for he had fought and won the battle of the locomotive, and so, by improving the
means of communication, had advanced the interests of trade, and promoted the welfare of England
and of mankind. George Stephenson died in 1848. His son Robert outlived him but eleven years,
and was buried in Westminster Abbey as one of the great men of the century. The boldness of
his engineering projects, the skill and daring with which he flung his railway bridges and
viaducts across rivers, valleys, and straits, had caught and held the imagination of the world.
Together the two men wrote the name of Stephenson large and lasting in the record of nineteenth-century
England.

Had the nineteenth century nothing else to show save the improvement in transportation, its
fame would be secure. Within a dozen years after the opening of the Liverpool and Manchester
Railway, Great Britain was covered with railways or railway surveys, establishing all the trunk-lines
which now exist. The thirty and a half miles of the original line grew by leaps and bounds
to a system of nearly two thousand miles, the property of a single company, whose property
is valued at five hundred million dollars. Twenty-five years after the day of the "Rocket's"
victory eight thousand miles of railway were in operation in the United Kingdom. Another twenty-five
years brought the total up to eighteen thousand miles, which had cost for construction nearly
four billion dollars. At the same time (1883) the number of locomotives was 14,469, of cars,
490,661. Before Manchester and Liverpool were connected by railway thirty stage-coaches sufficed
for the passenger traffic. The railway carried seven hundred thousand passengers between the
two cities in its first year and one-half. Fifty years later the passengers on all the English
lines numbered six hundred million, of whom eighty-five per cent traveled third-class. The
freight traffic in the same year was two hundred and twenty-six million tons. Robert Stephenson
lived to see one per cent of the entire population of the United Kingdom employed on the railways.
In 1884 the number of such employees was 367,793. These few figures are sufficient to suggest
the magnitude of the economic changes which took place in England, and indeed throughout the
civilized world, as the direct result of the talent, industry, and perseverance of George Stephenson,
the Northumbrian plowboy.

QUESTIONS FOR REVIEW

1. Describe the early life of George Stephenson. 2. What attempts at locomotives had been made
prior to his time? 3. What success of Stephenson's led to the Stockton-Darlington railway?
4. How did the " Quarterly" comment on the proposed Liverpool line? 5. What was the view of
the Parliamentary committee? 6. Describe Stephenson's work on the Liverpool & Manchester line.
7. What competitors had the "Rocket"? 8. Describe the later work of the two Stephensons. 9.
Contrast Stephenson's England with that of to-day.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

LIFE OF STEPHENSON. Samuel Smiles. ("Lives of the Engineers.")

V

RUSSELL AND PARLIAMENTARY REFORM

[JOHN RUSSELL, Earl Russell, born, London, August 18, 1792; died, Pembroke Lodge, Richmond
Park, May 28,1878; educated at Westminster School and Edinburgh University; Member of Parliament,
1813; favored Catholic emancipation; 1830-34, paymaster general; 1831, introduced the first
Reform Bill; 1832, carried the third Reform Bill; 1835-39, Home Secretary; 1839-41, Colonial
Secretary; 1846-52, Prime Minister; 1852-53, Foreign Secretary; 1854-55, President of the Council;
1855, Colonial Secretary; 1859-65, Foreign Secretary; 1865-66, Prime Minister.]

The Parliament of England is one of the most ancient of political institutions. Constitutional
historians find its germs in the council of the wise men--"The Witenagemot"--which was summoned
to give advice to the early Anglo-Saxon kings. In the thirteenth century Simon de Montfort
had added to the assembly of the nobles certain representatives of the counties, cities, and
boroughs. The monarchs found this gathering of the estates of the nation a useful instrument
of taxation and the Parliament in turn acquired certain legislative rights. In time the nobles
or peers began to sit by themselves, leaving the chosen representatives to meet in a House
of Commons. The story of the increasing influence of Parliament is in great part the history
of the English nation. Before the close of the seventeenth century the power of Parliament
had become the leading force in the state. It was comparatively late in life that our philosopher turned
historian, and his first work in this field, American Political Ideals
Viewed from the Standpoint of Universal History, announced that here
at last was a writer with broad horizons, who saw America not as an
isolated nation making a strange experiment but as adding a vital
chapter to the great world's history.

It was a surprising work, unlike any other in the field of American history, and it may fall to another
generation to appreciate its originality. These narratives, though not unified, form a fairly
complete history from the Colonial period to the formation of the Union.

To read any of these books is to discover that Fiske is concerned not chiefly with events but
with the meaning or philosophy of events; that he has a rare gift of delving below the surface, of seeing
in the endeavors of a handful of men at Jamestown or Plymouth or Philadelphia a profoundly
significant chapter of universal history. Hence we seem to read in his pages not the story of
America but the story of Man. Moreover, he had enthusiasm; which means that his heart was young and
that he could make even dull matters vital and interesting. Perhaps the best thing that can
be said of his work is that it is a pleasure to read it,--a criticism which is spoken for mature
or thoughtful readers rather than for those who read history for its dramatic or heroic interest.

[Sidenote:
LITERARY HISTORY]

Another feature of our recent prose is the number of books devoted to the study of American
letters; and that, like the study of nature, is a phenomenon which is without precedent. Notwithstanding
Emerson's plea for independence in The American Scholar (1837), our critics were busy long after
that date with the books of other lands, thinking that there was no American literature worthy of their
attention. In the same year that Emerson made his famous address Royal Robbins made what was
probably the first attempt at a history of American literature. [Footnote: Chambers' History
of the English Language and Literature, to which is added A History of American Contributions
to the English Language and Literature, by Royal Robbins (Hartford, 1837). It is interesting
to note that the author complained of the difficulty of his task in view of the fact that there
were at that time over two thousand living American authors.] It consisted of a few tag-ends attached
to a dry catalogue of English writers, and the scholarly author declared that, as there was
only one poor literary history then in existence (namely, Chambers'), he must depend largely
on his own memory for correcting the English part of the book and creating a new American
part. Nor were conditions improved during the next forty years.

After the war, however, the viewpoint of our historians was changed. They began to regard American
literature with increasing respect as an original product, as a true reflection of human life in
a new field and under the stimulus of new incentives to play the fine old game of "life, liberty
and the pursuit of happiness." In 1878 appeared Tyler's History of American Literature 1607-1765
in two bulky volumes that surprised readers by revealing a mass of
important writings in a period supposed to be barren of literary interest;
and the surprise increased when the same author produced two more
volumes dealing with the literature of the Revolution. Thus the power of the landed aristocracy, which
was the House of Lords, lacked but little of being the House of Commons as well. The mass of
the nation, which was now rapidly gaining in education and wealth, had no way of making its
influence felt in Parliament except by the power of public opinion, to which the periodical
and pamphlet press was beginning to give expression.

The condition of the representation, the rotten boroughs, as those in decay were called, and
the pocket boroughs, a name applied to those which were the property of individuals, opened
the way for shameless corruption. Where the electorate was small and the secret ballot unknown
bribery had free rein. Seats were openly bought and sold. As early as 1770 the elder Pitt (Lord
Chatham) had placed his finger upon this ailing spot in the English body politic, and had said,
"Before the end of this century, either the Parliament will reform itself from within, or be
reformed with a vengeance from without." His prediction was falsified by the reactionary effect
of the French Revolution, which not only made the English aristocracy cautious about readjusting
political arrangements, but kept the minds and hands of Englishmen so fully occupied with foreign
affairs as to divert attention from their own domestic troubles. At the close of the long struggle
with Napoleon the question came rapidly to the front. Financial distress and industrial depression
made the populace restless and discontented. The glowing principles which had inspired the
French Revolution in its early days with its watchwords of "Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity,"
gained a deep lodgment in the popular mind. In the Liberate Roll of 26 Henry III. the king directs
a payment to be made "to Isabella, the wife of our beloved clerk, Robert of Canterbury, to
purchase a robe for our use."

Even in the reign of Richard I. it may be doubtful whether the term was not used with both meanings;
for in the charter of Walter Mapes, granting certain lands, among the witnesses are "Rogero,
capellano, Willelmo, capellano, Thoma, clerico meo, Waltero, clerico, Jacobo, clerico, Bricio,
fermario meo."
 For ten years more the democratic
press continued to agitate even more bitterly for reform, and a lonely "radical" member of
Parliament would bring forward his motions only to have them contemptuously thrust aside. In
1830, however, a ministry came into power which allowed nothing to stand in the way until the
long awaited bill had become a law. The condition which contributed to its success, the incidents
of the tremendous parliamentary struggle, and the men who carried it through, are all worthy
of the most careful attention of the student of human affairs.

The death of George IV. (June 26, 1830) made way for his brother, William IV., and made necessary
a general parliamentary election. The summer had seen a liberal revolution in Paris. The Bourbons
had been thrust out and Louis Philippe had been accepted as the citizen-king of the French,
governing under a liberal constitution. This revolution, and simultaneous movements throughout
western Europe, touched an answering chord in the breasts of Englishmen, and the Tories found
themselves in a minority when the new Parliament assembled in November. The Duke of Wellington
was Prime Minister, the last man from whom the popular cause could expect to receive any concessions.
At the opening of the session the premier took occasion to declare his disbelief "that the
state of representation could be improved or be rendered more satisfactory to the country at
large than at the present moment." "I am fully convinced," he said, "that the country possesses
a legislature which answers all the good purposes of legislation, and this to a greater degree
than any legislature has answered in any other country whatever." He flatly declared his determined
opposition to any measure of reform. Within a fortnight his government met its Waterloo and
he resigned.

Earl Gray, the Whig premier who succeeded Wellington, came into office fully resolved to pass
a Reform Bill. The responsibility of drafting the measure was intrusted to a young Whig commoner,
Lord John Russell, a younger son of the Duke of Bedford, and a scion of one of the great Whig
houses. Lord John Russell had entered Parliament in 1813, at the age of twenty-one, for one
of the family boroughs. He was now in his thirty-seventh year, and his parliamentary career,
if not brilliant for oratory, had at least been marked by intelligent devotion to high ideals.
In 1819, before the echoes of Peterloo had died away, he had asked Parliament to disfranchise
all boroughs of proved corruption, and transfer their representation to more deserving constituencies.
A little later he proved to the House the corruption existing at Gram-pound, and secured the
disfranchisement of that borough and the transfer of its voting rights to the great county
of York. This was but a small step, but it opened the way to tremendous changes. He was determined,
he said, to strip "the dead bones of a former state of England" of their political influence
and give it to the "living energy of England of the nineteenth century, with its steam engines
and its factories, its cotton and woolen cloths, its cutlery and its coal mines, its wealth
and its intelligence." Session after session he returned to this text only to be as often defeated
by the Tories. He was more successful in 1828 when he carried the repeal of the Test and Corporation
Acts, relics of a bygone age when it was thought necessary to the safety of the nation to exclude
from military or civil office all persons who did not take the communion in accordance with
the ritual of the Established Church. "Lord John," as he came to be called in the course of
his half-century of parliamentary life, would have advanced from the relief of Protestant dissenters
to the emancipation of the Catholics, had not the Tories, in their dread of civil war in Ireland,
forestalled him, and made the measure their own (April, 1829).

The first Reform Bill, which had been drafted by Russell, and worked over by Lord Durham and
other ministers, was presented to the Commons on March 1, 1831. Its provisions had been kept
profoundly secret, and the house was thronged to hear them explained in the low and measured
tones of Lord John Russell. The nation was as eager as the immediate auditory to know how far
the government would go in granting the popular demand. Touching upon some of the existing
anomalies the speaker imagined a foreigner visiting England; having been impressed with British
wealth, civilization, and renown, "Would not such a foreigner," he queried, "be much astonished
if he were taken to a green mound and informed that it sent two members to the British Parliament?
. . . . or if he walked into a park without the vestige of a dwelling and was told that it,
too, sent two members to the British Parliament? But if he was surprised at this, how much
more would he be astonished if he were carried into the north of England, where he would see
large, flourishing towns, full of trade, activity, and intelligence, vast magazines of wealth
and manufactures, and were told that these places sent no representatives to Parliament!"

By the provisions of the bill sixty boroughs with less than two thousand members were to lose
both members, and forty-seven boroughs were to be reduced to a single member. Of the seats
thus vacated eight were to be given to London, thirty-four to large towns, fifty-five to English
counties, five to Scotland, three to Ireland, one to Wales. The franchise was to be extended
to inhabitants of houses taxed at ten pounds a year, and to leaseholders and copyholders of
counties. The changes added about half a million to the number of voters in the United Kingdom.

The country followed the progress of the debate with intense interest night after night. The
bill passed to its second reading by a majority of one in the fullest house on record and the
country gave itself up to illuminations and other expressions of joy. But the bill got no farther.
The majority was too close for the comfort of the ministers, and having been defeated on a
matter of detail, they confidently appealed to the country. The King dissolved Parliament,
and writs were issued for a general election. It was at this juncture, when London was illuminating
to show its satisfaction over the prospect for a reform victory, that the darkened windows
of the Duke of Wellington's town house were stoned by the populace. The rallying cries of the
Whigs were "The bill, the whole bill, and nothing but the bill," and "Reform, Aye or No?" Popular
agitation by associations, newspapers, speech-making, monster meetings, etc., reached an unprecedented
height, and the force of public opinion was shown at the polls. In spite of pocket boroughs,
family influence, and flagrant corruption, the reformers came back to Parliament with their
majority increased to fully one hundred. Of the eighty-two members for the counties where the
popular feeling had its freest expression, only six were opposed to Lord Russell's scheme of
reform.

Lord Russell's second Reform Bill was introduced on June 24th. The minority, hopeless of success
in a stand-up fight, resorted to the obstructive tactics now known as "filibustering." After
wasting three months in tedious obstruction the Commons passed the bill by a majority of one
hundred and nine, and Lord Grey laid it before the House of Lords in the most impressive speech
of his career. He endeavored to persuade the aristocrats before him that only by such concessions
could the Constitution of England be saved. Already there were wide-spread evidences of popular
discontent in the "nightly alarms, burnings, and popular disturbances." The rotten boroughs
could no longer be tolerated with safety to the state. "This gangrene upon our representative
system bade defiance to all remedies but that of excision." Deaf to his arguments, and blind
to everything but their own privilege and immediate interest, the peers pronounced against
the bill.

The rejection of the second Reform Bill by the House of Lords brought England to the brink
of revolution. As it was, the newspapers were full of signs that the patience of the nation
was exhausted. Mobs and incendiary fires were reported in many districts, and the abolition
of the House of Lords found strenuous advocates. It was at one of the numerous indignation
meetings that Sydney Smith hit off the attempt of the Lords to stay the progress of reform
by comparing it with Mrs. Partington's attempt to check the high tide at Sidmouth with a mop.
Gentlemen, be at your ease; be quiet and steady; you will beat Mrs. Partington!"

As soon as the Parliament reassembled in December, Lord John Russell offered the third Reform
Bill. It was identical in principle with the others, though the number of the affected boroughs
had been slightly altered. It passed its successive stages by ample majorities and was in due
order presented to the House of Lords. The ministers were prepared to play their last card.
They found the peers determined to mutilate the proposition in disregard of the popular demand,
now louder than ever, for "The bill, the whole bill, and nothing but the bill." Earl Grey and
his chancellor, Lord Brougham, thereupon requested King William to overcome the opposition
by sanctioning the creation of new peers sufficient to insure a majority for the act. But the
King held back. The ministers offered their resignations, and the King commissioned the Iron
Duke to form a government. But no Tory government could stand a day in the face of the hosts
of reform in the Commons and in the nation, as Wellington had reluctantly to confess. The monarch
had to yield, and so doing, helped establish the principle more firmly than ever before that
the chief power in the English Constitution is lodged in the House of Commons, acting through
its ministers. In this case it was Commons against King and Lords, and the Commons had their
way. To save themselves from an inundation of new peerages the Lords whose hostility to the
bill was irreconcilable absented themselves from Westminster when the vote was taken--"skulked
in clubs and country houses" as Lord Russell sharply phrased it. The Duke of Wellington's words
will show the temper with which the hide-bound Tories received the act. "Reform, my Lords,
has triumphed. The barriers of the Constitution are broken down, the waters of destruction
have burst the gates of the temple, and the tempest begins to howl. Who can say where its course
should stop? Who can stay its speed? For my own part I sincerely hope that my predictions may
not be fulfilled, and that my country may not be ruined."

The immediate effect of the reform was to admit the tradesmen and tenant-farmers, the sturdy
English middle class, to a share in the government. Thirty-five years later, after Lord Russell
had made three or four futile endeavors to carry still further the principle of reform, his
opponents, the Conservatives, led by Lord Derby and Mr. Disraeli, passed the Reform Bills of
1867-68, greatly reducing the property qualification of voters, and rectifying inequalities
in borough representation. Under this act most of the mechanic and artisan class gained the
right to vote. Finally, in 1884, Mr. Gladstone carried the reform another stage, conferring
the franchise upon two millions of poor men, including the class of agricultural laborers.

His contribution to the success of reform identified Lord John Russell with the cause of liberty,
and made him a leading man. It is not within the scope of this sketch to follow him through
the shifting scenes of the honorable career in politics and statesmanship which now opened
out before him, and which continued until, when at nearly four-score, the party leadership
passed from him to his able associate, William Ewart Gladstone. Among the notable measures
in which he had a leading hand was the Municipal Reform Act of 1835, which put the government
of cities in the hands of the taxpayers and did away with the effete and corrupt corporations
which had exercised it. His "Edinburgh letter," in 1845, hastened Peel's conversion to free
trade. He was ever concerned in religion and education. After the overthrow of Peel's government,
in 1846, he was raised to the premiership. He held the position until 1852, and again, from
October, 1865, to June, 1866. His retirement in the latter year removed from British politics
a conspicuous figure. It was a figure which had filled a large place in the affairs of the
world, and for the most part filled it well, though never again in his career was it his lot
to become such a popular hero as he was during the early battles for reform. Russell's death,
in 1878, brought up the varied panorama of his life. McCarthy, in reviewing it, touches upon
some of its points of interest. "He had a seat in the administration at his disposal when another
young man might have been glad of a seat in an opera box. He must have been brought into more
or less intimate association with all the men and women worth knowing in Europe since the early
part of the century. He was a pupil of Dugald Stewart at Edinburgh, and he sat as a youth at
the feet of Fox. He had accompanied Wellington in some of his peninsular campaigns; he measured
swords with Canning and Peel successively through years of parliamentary warfare. He knew Metternich
and Talleyrand. He had met the widow of Charles Stuart, the young chevalier, in Florence; and
had conversed with Napoleon in Elba. He knew Cavour and Bismarck. He was now an ally of Daniel
O'Connell, and now of Cobden and Bright. He was the close friend of Thomas Moore; he knew Byron.
Lord John Russell had tastes for literature, for art, for philosophy, for history, for politics,
and his aestheticism had the advantage that it made him seek the society and appreciate the
worth of men of genius and letters. Thus he never remained a mere politician like Pitt or Palmerston."

No one will now claim that Earl Russell--he was raised to the peerage with this title--is to
be ranked with the few greatest of English statesmen, but that he served his country devotedly,
honorably, and courageously will not be denied. His contemporary, Lord Shaftesbury, noted his
death in his own journal with this just comment: "To have begun with disapprobation, to have
fought through many difficulties, to have announced and acted on principles new to the day
in which he lived, to have filled many important offices, to have made many speeches and written
many books, and in his whole course to have done much with credit and nothing with dishonor,
and so to have sustained and advanced his reputation to the very end, is a mighty commendation."
And the Queen, in a letter to his widow, wrote: "You will believe that I truly regret an old
friend of forty years' standing, and whose personal kindness in trying and anxious times I
shall ever remember. 'Lord John,' as I knew him best, was one of my first and most distinguished
ministers, and his departure recalls many eventful times."

QUESTIONS FOR REVIEW

1.  In what ways did Parliament fail to be "representative" at the opening of the nineteenth
century? 2.  What circumstances favored agitation of this condition? 3.  What was the "Peterloo
Massacre"? 4.  Who was Lord Russell, and what his early relation to the reform movement? 5.
What was the Test and Corporation Act, and when repealed? 6.  Describe the first Reform Bill,
and its effect upon the House of Commons? 7.  How was the second bill treated by the Commons
and by the Lords? 8.  What circumstances attended the passage of the third bill? 9.  How was
the principle of reform extended in later years? 10. What peculiar privileges did Lord John
Russell enjoy? 11. How is his character shown in the use which he made of them?

BIBLIOGRAPHY

LIFE OF EARL RUSSELL.          S. J. Reid. RECOLLECTIONS AND SUGGESTIONS. Lord John Russell.
THE EPOCH OF REFORM.           Justin McCarthy. HISTORY OF THE REFORM BILL.    W. N. Molesworth.

VI

COBDEN AND FREE TRADE

[RICHARD COBDEN, born, 1804, at Dunford, near Midhurst, Sussex; died, London, 1865; after grammar
school education, entered mercantile house in London, soon becoming a traveling salesman; about
1830 became founder of a cotton-printing concern at Manchester; traveled in Europe and America;
wrote pamphlets on commercial and economic questions; 1838, became an ardent supporter of the
Anti-Corn Law League; 1841, Member of Parliament for Stockport; advocate of free trade in the
House of Commons; received popular testimonial of £79,000 in recognition of his services to
the free trade cause; 1847-57, Member of Parliament for West Riding of York; advocate of arbitration
and diminished expense for military purposes; 1849, Member of Parliament for Rochdale; 1860,
negotiated commercial treaty with France.]

The Reform Bill of 1832 invaded the privileges of the landed aristocracy by destroying in some
measure their control of the House of Commons through the pocket boroughs. Sixteen years later
a second blow was struck at this class through the repeal of the Corn Laws.

The Corn Laws aimed to secure to English agriculturists a monopoly of the home market for grain.
The wars with Napoleon, which paralyzed continental industries, stimulated those of England
to abnormal prosperity. Food advanced in price, but labor was in great demand and well paid.
The prospect of approaching peace in Europe, in 1813, precipitated hard times in Great Britain.
The price of wheat fell and manufactures declined. The land-owning classes, then supreme in
Parliament, enacted the Corn Law of 1815 for their own protection. By its provisions the importation
of grain from foreign countries was practically prohibited until the price in England reached
eighty shillings per quarter. Ten members of the House of Lords protested against the measure
on the grounds that all restraint of trade was improper; that the restraint of trade in food
was especially iniquitous; that the law would not steady or cheapen prices; and that "such
a measure levied a tax on the consumer in order to give a bounty to the grower of corn,"--principles
which have a modern sound.

England was at that time living under a system of high protective tariffs upon imported articles
of manufacture as well as of food. But in 1823-25 Mr. Huskisson succeeded in having most of
the tariffs upon raw materials reduced to a fraction of the former figures, with the result
that production was enormously stimulated and valuable foreign markets were opened to English
commodities. His only modification of the Corn Law (in 1822) was to reduce by ten shillings
the figure at which importations might begin. Later he and Canning made some progress with
a "sliding scale" bill, a principle which the Duke of Wellington enacted into law in 1828.
This interesting device provided that when the price in the home market reached sixty-four
shillings the quarter the duty should be 23s 8d. As the price rose the duty fell. When wheat
was 69s, the duty was 16s 8d, and when the price reached 73s, foreign corn might come in on
payment of one shilling per quarter.

As has been shown in a foregoing chapter, the past half-century had witnessed a great transformation
in the industrial complexion of England--from a nation chiefly agricultural it had become the
center of the world's manufactures. Tens of thousands of families had removed from the farms
to the cities, "following the work" in the mills and factories, and hundreds of thousands of
pounds had been invested in a great diversity of industrial enterprises. The manufacturer and
the mill-hand were alike interested in low prices for food. The manufacturer also saw in the
high tariff on grain a barrier against the free exchange of commodities. As his output increased
it became necessary for him to enlarge his market, but when he attempted to sell his goods
to America and Russia the law interposed to block the bargain by excluding those grain-producing
countries from selling their superfluous food- stocks in England. Apparently here was a clash
between the interests of manufacturer and agriculturist.

In 1836 a few thoughtful men in London, who were opposed to any restraint of trade, formed
an Anti-Corn Law Association. But the metropolis was stony soil for such a plant. In 1838 a
similar association was organized in Manchester, one of the new industrial cities dominated
by modern ideas, crowded with factories, and populous with laboring men and women, a fit center
for such an agitation as was to precede the downfall of the tax on food. In Manchester, too,
in the person of a calico-printer named Richard Cobden, the agitation found its mainspring
and its clear and persuasive voice.

Richard Cobden sprang from a long line of plain Sussex yeomen. His father was a farmer who
became bankrupt in 1813, and the lad Richard, one of twelve children, was sent by a well-meaning
relative to a Yorkshire boarding-school--a sort of Dotheboys Hall. From such a rough school
he passed into the rougher one of life, becoming the lad of all work in the London warehouse
of the same kinsman, later a clerk, and at twenty-one a traveling salesman, or "drummer," a
position for which his untiring energy and engaging sociability were high qualifications. A
great reader, he was also a superior converser and a "mixer" as the present-day phrase goes,
adapting himself to his company with unusual facility. John Morley records that all his friends
agree that "they have never known a man in whom this trait of a sound and rational desire to
know and to learn was so strong and so inexhaustible." "To know the affairs of the world was
the master- passion of his life," and the knowledge which he gained and assimilated not merely
in his early contact with men in his business, but in the wider journeys of observation to
which he treated himself in later years, contributed much to the enrichment of his speeches
and writings.

At the age of twenty-four, with two other young men, whose capital like his own was little
more than energy, probity, and business knowledge, he founded a firm in London for the sale
of Manchester cotton prints on commission. Soon the firm was printing its own goods in Lancashire,
and Mr. Cobden, prospering greatly from the first, took up his residence in Manchester, to
watch over that end of the business. DEDICAVITQVE SVA PEC.[693]

If this inscription refers, as well it may, to the poet, it will follow that he served as tribune
of the first Dalmatian cohort, probably in Britain,[694] held high municipal office in his native
town, and was priest of the deified Vespasian. But the praenomen is wanting in the original,
and the inscription may have been erected not by the satirist but by one of his kinsfolk. That
he spent the greater portion of his life at Rome is evident from
his satires.

Of his friends we know little. Umbricius, Persicus, Catullus, and Calvinus[695] are mere names. Of
Quintilian[696] he speaks with great respect, and may perhaps have studied under him; of Statius
he writes with enthusiasm, but there is no evidence that he had done more than be present at
that poet's recitations.[697] Martial, however, was a personal friend, and writes affectionately
of him and to him in three of his epigrams.[698] Unlike Martial, whose life was a continual struggle
against poverty, Juvenal, though he had clearly endured some of the
discomforts and degradations involved by a client's attendance on
his rich patronus, was a man of some means, possessing an estate at
Aquinum,[699] a country house at Tibur,[700] and a house at Rome.[701]
At what date precisely he began to write is uncertain.

We are told that his first effort was a brief poem attacking the actor Paris, which he afterwards
embodied in the seventh satire. But it was long before he ventured to read his satires even to his
intimate friends.[702] This suggests that portions, at any rate, of the satires of the first
book were composed during the reign of Domitian.[703] Juvenal had certainly every reason for
concealing their existence till after the tyrant's death. The first satire was probably written
later to form a preface to the other four, and the whole book may have been published in 101.
It is noteworthy, however, that Martial, writing to him in that year, mentions merely his gifts
as a declaimer, and seems not to know him as a satirist. The second book, containing only the
sixth satire, was probably published about 116, since it contains allusions to earthquakes in Asia
and to a comet boding ill to Parthia and Armenia (l. 407-12).

Such a comet was visible in Rome in the autumn of 115, on the eve of Trajan's campaign against
Parthia, while in December an earthquake did great damage to the town of Antioch. The third book (7-9)
opens with an elaborate compliment to Hadrian as the patron of literature at Rome. As Hadrian
succeeded to the principate in 117 and left Rome for a tour of the provinces in 121, this
book must fall somewhere between our dates. The fourth book (10-12) contains no indication
as to its date, but must lie between the publication of the third
book and of the fifth (after 127).

Beyond these facts it is hardly possible to go in our reconstruction of the poet's life. As
far as may be judged it was an uneventful career save for one great calamity. The ancient biographies
assert that Juvenal's denunciation of actors embodied in the seventh satire offended an actor who
was the favourite of the princeps. They are supported by Apollinaris Sidonius,[704] who speaks
of Juvenal as the 'exile-victim of an actor's anger', and by Johannes Malala.[705] The latter
writer, with certain of the ancient biographies, identifies the actor with Paris, the favourite
of Domitian; others, again, say that the poet was banished by Nero[706]--a manifestly absurd statement--others
by Trajan,[707] while our best authority asserts that he was eighty years old when banished, and that
he died of grief and mortification.[708] The place of exile is variously given. Most of the biographies
place it in Egypt, the best of them asserting that he was given a military command in that province.[709]
Others mention Britain,[710] others the Pentapolis of Libya.[711] Amid such discrepancies it
is impossible to give any certain answer. But it is certain that the actor who caused Juvenal's
banishment was not Paris, who was put to death by Domitian as early as 83, and almost equally certain
that Domitian is guiltless of the poet's exile. It is, however, possible that he was banished
by Trajan or Hadrian, though it would surprise us to find Trajan, for all the debauchery of
his private life, so far under the influence of an actor[712] as to sacrifice a Roman citizen to his
displeasure; while as regards Hadrian it is noteworthy that the very satire said to have offended
the pantomimus contains an eloquent panegyric of that emperor.

Further, it is hard to believe the story that Juvenal was banished to Egypt at the advanced age of
eighty under the pretext of a military command. The problem is insoluble.[713] The most that
can be said is that the persistence of the tradition gives it some claim to credibility, though
the details handed down to us are wholly untrustworthy, and probably
little better than clumsy inferences from passages in the satires.

The scope of Juvenal's work and the motives that spur him are set forth in the first satire.
He is weary of the deluge of trivial and mechanical verse poured out by the myriad poetasters
of the day:

Still shall I hear and never quit the score, Stunned with hoarse Codrus' Theseid, o'er and o'er? Shall
this man's elegies and t'other's play Unpunished murder a long summer's day? ... since the
world with writing is possest, I'll versify in spite; and do my best To make as much waste-paper
as the rest.[714]

He will write in a different vein from his rivals. Satire shall be his theme. In such an age,
when virtue is praised and vice practised, the age of the libertine, the parvenu, the forger,
the murderer, it is hard not to write satire. 'Facit indignatio versum!'[715] he cries. DRYDEN.

Never
was vice so rampant; luxury has become monstrous; the rich lord lives in pampered and selfish
ease, while those poor mortals, his clients, jostle together to receive the paltry dole of the
sportula; that is all the help they will get from their patron:

No age can go beyond us; future times Can add no further to the present crimes. Our sons but the
same things can wish and do; Vice is at stand and at the highest flow. Thou, Satire, spread thy
sails, take all the winds that blow.[717]

And yet the satirist must be cautious; the days are past when a Lucilius could lash Rome at his will:

When
Lucilius brandishes his pen And flashes in the face of guilty men, A cold sweat stands in drops
on every part, And rage succeeds to tears, revenge to smart. Muse, be advised; 'tis past considering
time, When entered once the dangerous lists of rhyme; Since none the living villains dare implead,
Arraign them in the persons of the dead.[718]

No better preface has ever been written; it gives a perfect summary of the motives, the objects,
and the methods of the poet's work in language which for vigour and brilliance he never surpassed.
The closing lines show us his literary parentage. It is Lucilius who inspires him; it is the
fierce invective of the father of Roman satire that appeals to him. Lucilius had scourged Rome,
when the inroads of Hellenism and oriental luxury, the fruits of foreign conquest, were beginning
to make themselves felt. To Juvenal it falls to denounce the triumph of these corroding influences.
He has nothing of the almost pathetic philosophic detachment of Persius, nor of the easy-going
compromise of Horace. He does not palter with problems of right and wrong, nor hesitate over
his moral judgements; casuistry is wholly alien to his temper. It is indignation makes the verse,
and from this fact, together with his rhetorical training, his chief
merits and his chief failings spring.

He introduces no novelty into satire save the almost unvarying bitterness and ferocity of his tone.
Like Horace and Persius, he employs the dactylic hexameter to the exclusion of other metres,
while, owing in the main to his taste for declamation, he is far more sparing in the use of
the dialogue-form than either of his predecessors.

Before further discussing his general characteristics, it is necessary to take a brief survey of the
remaining satires. The second and ninth are savage and, as was almost inevitable, obscene denunciations
of unnatural vice.

In the third, the most orderly in arrangement and the most brilliant in execution of all his
satires, he describes all the dangers and horrors of life at Rome. Umbricius, a friend of the poet, is
leaving the city. It is no place for a man of honour; it has become a city for Greeks; the worthless
and astute Graeculus is everywhere predominant, and, stained though he be with a thousand vices,
has outwitted the native-born, and, by the arts of the panderer and the flatterer, has made
himself their master. The poor are treated like slaves. Houses fall, or are burned with fire. Sleep
is impossible, so loud with traffic are the streets. By day it is scarcely safe to walk abroad
for fear of being crushed by one of the great drays that throng the city; by night there are
the lesser perils of slops and broken crockery cast from the windows, the greater perils of
roisterers and thieves. Rome is no place for Umbricius. He must go.

The fourth satire opens with a violent attack on the parvenu Egyptian
Crispinus, so powerful at the court of Domitian, and goes on by a
somewhat clumsy transition to tell the story of the huge turbot caught
near Ancona and presented to the emperor.

So large was it that a cabinet council must needs be called to decide what should be done with
it. This affords excuse for an inimitable picture of Domitian's servile councillors. At last
it is decided that the turbot is to be served whole and a special dish to be constructed for
it. 'Ah! why,' the poet concludes, 'did not Domitian devote himself entirely to such trifles as
these?'

In the fifth satire Juvenal returns to the subject of the hardships and insults which the poor
client must endure. He pictures the host sitting in state with the best of everything set before
him and served in the choicest manner, while the unhappy client must be content with food and drink
of the coarsest kind. Virro, the rich man, does this not because he is parsimonious, but because
the humiliation of his client amuses his perverted mind. But the satirist does not spare the
client, whose servile complaisance leads him to put up with such treatment. 'Be a man!' he cries,
'and sooner beg on the streets than degrade yourself thus.'

The sixth satire, the longest of the collection, is a savage denunciation of the vices of womankind.
The various types of female degradation are revealed to our gaze with merciless and often
revolting portrayal. The unchastity of woman is the main theme, but ranked with the adulteress
and the wanton are the murderess of husband or of child, the torturer of the slave, the client of
the fortune-teller or the astrologer, and even the more harmless female athlete and blue-stocking.
For vigour and skill the satire ranks among Juvenal's best, but it is marred by wanton grossness
and at times almost absurd exaggeration.

The seventh satire deals with the difficulties besetting a literary career. It opens with a dexterous
compliment to Hadrian; the poet qualifies his complaints by saying that they apply only to
the past. The accession of Hadrian has swept all the storm-clouds from the author's sky. But
in the unhappy days but lately passed away, the poet's lot was most miserable. His work brings him
no livelihood; his patron's liberality goes but a little way. The historian is in no less
parlous plight. The advocate makes some show of wealth, but it is, as a rule, the merest show;
only the man already wealthy succeeds at the bar; many a struggling lawyer goes bankrupt in the
struggle to advertise himself and push his way. The teacher of rhetoric and the school-master
receive but a miserable fee, yet they have all the drudgery of discipline and all the responsibility
of moulding the characters of the young placed upon their shoulders. They are expected to be
omniscient, and yet they starve.

The eighth satire treats the familiar theme that without virtue birth is of small account. Many examples
of the degeneracy of the aristocracy are given, some trivial, some grave, but above all the satirist
denounces the cruelty and oppression of nobly-born provincial governors. He concludes in his noblest
vein in praise of the great plebeians of the past, Cicero, Marius, the Decii, and Servius Tullius.
It is in deeds, not in titles, that true nobility lies. Better be the son of Thersites and possess
the valour of Achilles, than live the life of a Thersites and boast Achilles for your sire.

The eighth satire may be regarded as the presage of a distinct change of type. Instead of the
vivid pictures of Roman life and the almost dramatic representation of vice personified, Juvenal
seems to turn for inspiration to the scholastic declamation which had fascinated his youth.
Moral problems are treated in a more abstract way, and the old fierce onset of indignation,
though it has by no means disappeared, seems to have lost something of its former violence. There
are also traces of declining powers, a greater tendency to digression, a lack of concentration
and vigour, and even of dexterity of language.

But the change is due in all probability not merely to advance in years nor to the calming
and mellowing influence of old age, but also to a change that was gradually passing over the
Roman world. The material for savage satire was appreciably less. Evil in its worst forms had
triumphed under Domitian. With Nerva, Trajan, and Hadrian virtue began slowly and uncertainly to reclaim
part of her lost dominions.

The fourth book opens with the famous
tenth satire on the vanity of human wishes. What should man pray for?
The theme is hackneyed and the treatment shows no special originality.
But the thought is elevated, the rhetoric superb, and the verse has
a resounding tread such as is only found in Persius and Juvenal among
the later poets of Rome. 'What shall man pray for?' Power? Think of
Sejanus, Pompey, Demosthenes, Cicero! To each one greatness brought
his doom. Think of Hannibal and Alexander, how they, and with them
all their high schemings, came to die; Long life? What? Should we
pray to outlive our bodily powers, to bewail the death of our nearest
and dearest, to fall from the high place where once we stood? Beauty?
Beauty is beset by a thousand perils in these vile days, and rarely
do beauty and chastity go hand in hand. Rather than pray for boons
like these, 'entrust thy fortune to the gods above,' or, if pray thou
must,

stand confined To health of body and content of mind; A soul
that can securely death defy, And count it nature's privilege to die;
Serene and manly, hardened to sustain The load of life and exercised
in pain: Guiltless of hate and proof against desire, That all things
weighs and nothing can admire; That dares prefer the toils of Hercules,
To dalliance, banquet, and ignoble ease.
But I may say that neither the gentlemen sitting on the benches opposite, nor myself, nor the
gentlemen sitting round me--are the parties who are strictly entitled to the merit.....Sir,
the name which ought to be, and which will be, associated with the success of these measures
is the name of a man who, acting, I believe from pure and disinterested motives, has advocated
their cause with untiring energy, and by appeals to reason, expressed by an eloquence the more
to be admired because it was unaffected and unadorned, the name which ought to be, and will
be, associated with the success of these measures is the name of Richard Cobden. Without scruple,
sir, I attribute the success of these measures to him."

The commercial policy which England inaugurated, in 1846, under the lead of Richard Cobden,
continued in force throughout the century. Under its workings the commercial supremacy of England
in the markets of the world has been achieved.

QUESTIONS FOR REVIEW

1.  What conditions brought about the Corn Laws? 2.  What was the object of the "sliding scale"?
3.  How did the Corn Laws work against both mill-hand and manufacturer? 4.  Give an account
of the early life of Richard Cobden. 5.  Describe the organization of the Anti-Corn Law Association.
6.  What impression did Cobden make in the House of Commons? 7.  How was John Bright enlisted
in the agitation? 8.  Compare the oratorical qualities of the two men. 9.  In what varied ways
did Cobden's enthusiasm make itself felt? 10. What events fulfilled Cobden's prediction and
brought about the repeal of the Corn Laws? 11. What were the chief events of the last twenty
years of Cobden's life? 12. What tribute did Sir Robert Peel pay to him?

BIBLIOGRAPHY

LIFE OF RICHARD COBDEN.       John Morley. HISTORY OF THE ANTI-CORN LAW LEAGUE. Prentice. CORN
LAW RHYMES.           Ebenezer Elliott.

VII

PEEL AND ADMINISTRATIVE REFORMS

[ROBERT PEEL, born February 5, 1788, near Bury, Lancashire; died, London, July 2, 1850; educated
at Harrow and Christ Church, Oxford, B.A., 1808 (double first); Member of Parliament, 1809;
1811, Under-Secretary for the Colonies; 1812-18, Secretary for Ireland; 1817, Member of Parliament
for Oxford University; 1819, advocated return to specie payment; 1820, married Julia, daughter
of General Sir John Floyd; 1822-27, Home Secretary, Leader of House of Commons; 1826, proposed
reform of Criminal Law; 1828, Home Secretary and Leader of the House; 1829, proposed Catholic
emancipation; 1834-35, Prime Minister; 1841-46, Prime Minister; 1842, carried Income Tax; 1846,
repealed the Corn Laws; 1846-50, without office.]

When the Reform Bill of 1832 was passed, the Duke of Wellington bluntly declared his conviction
that the result would be the speedy overthrow of the British Constitution. More sagacious observers
than the great field-marshal were of the opinion that a radical change must ensue, and that
the Tory party, long the prop of Church and Throne, having lost control of legislation in the
House of Commons through the abolition of the close and rotten boroughs, could never regain
the seat of power by electing a majority of members. That these forebodings and prophecies
did not come true was largely due to the consummate political skill of Sir Robert Peel.

In reviewing a life so rich in public activity as Peel's it is impossible to point to any one
important question as his particular contribution to the history of his time. There was scarcely
a single great parliamentary battle in which he did not bear a hand on one side or the other.
Indeed, hostile criticism has censured him for having in not a few instances carried to ultimate
success the very measures of which, when first proposed, he had been the stoutest enemy. This
is true of the Resumption of Specie Payments, the Catholic Emancipation Acts, and most notably
of all the repeal of the Corn Laws. The characteristics which resulted so strangely may be
accounted for in part at least by some knowledge of the early life of the great parliamentary
leader.

The Peels were weavers and printers of calicoes. The father of the Prime Minister was one of
the wealthiest manufacturers in his generation, a thorough-going Tory, and an ardent admirer
of Mr. Pitt. He was sent to Parliament in 1790, and his support of the government by his vote
there, and by his contribution of fifty thousand pounds to the war fund, won for him, in 1800,
a baronetcy. There had been Robert Peels before his day, but now for the first time there was
a Sir Robert.

Sir Robert's most loving care was lavished upon the training of his eldest son and namesake,
who from the day of his birth, February 5, 1788, the patriotic father had prayerfully consecrated
to the service of his country. Many stories are told of the pains which the great calico-printer
bestowed on the lad's training for a public career. We see the little lad standing on a table
to declaim or recite to his parental mentor, and read of the rigor of cross-examination to
which this lad of twelve was subjected after hearing a sermon or public address. A current
anecdote represents the doting father as saying, " Bob, you dog, if you're not prime minister,
I'll disinherit you." At Harrow, as a schoolboy he reflected credit upon his father's training,
and at Christ Church, Oxford, he achieved the unusual honor of a double first class (classics
and mathematics). When he left the university at the age of twenty-one his father provided
him with a seat in Parliament, and so, with every favoring circumstance of youth, health, education,
friends, and wealth, he began his eventful career in the House of Commons which was to be the
scene of his best labors until the day of his death.

Old Sir Robert and his son sat on the same side of the House, but the alert and active mind
of the young man could not accept untested his father's political creed of hide-bound Toryism.
The first question upon which the son and father parted company was on the subject of the resumption
of specie payments, which had been discontinued in 1797 under the financial stress of the war
with France. In 1811 the two Peels voted together against a resolution looking toward resumption,
but the younger man's mind was fascinated with the economic aspects of the problem, and half
a dozen years later, when the subject again pressed for settlement, he brought forward the
act which placed England on a gold basis. The father openly bewailed the son's misguided course,
but Peel's act became the law (1819).

Before he was thirty, the younger Robert Peel had gained a valuable experience in administrative
work by a term of six years (1812-1818) as Chief Secretary for Ireland. Here, as in the preparation
of his studies at Oxford and of his speeches for the House of Commons, he was painstaking,
methodical, thorough, and energetic. In fact he applied to the public business the same sterling
qualities which had made his father and grandfather successful merchants and manufacturers.
His most notable reform in Ireland, which was then in a sad condition of disorder, was the
replacement of military rule by a well-organized civil force of police, acting under the orders
of the magistrates. He favored a more liberal scheme of popular education for the unhappy island,
but his Tory prejudices stood in the way of relieving the Catholics of their disabilities.
Because of his avowed opposition to this demand, and his bitter hostility to O'Connell, the
champion of the cause, Mr. Peel--"Orange" Peel, as the Catholic Irish nicknamed him--had the
satisfaction of being returned to Parliament in 1817 for the University of Oxford, perhaps
the most ultra-Tory constituency in the three kingdoms.

In January, 1822, Peel entered the cabinet of Lord Liverpool as Home Secretary. From the first
he showed that his mind was not impenetrable to the legal reforms which earnest men had long
been advocating, but to which the Tories had turned a deaf ear. The reform of the criminal
law, which still carried the harsh statutes of an unquiet age, had been ably championed by
Romilly, Mackintosh, and others, but it was Peel's way first to oppose, then to admit the principle
of the reform, and finally to enact it into enduring law. On his initiative, in 1823, "nearly
one hundred felonies were removed from the list of capital crimes, and judges were empowered
to withhold the death penalty in all cases except murder, when the culprit appeared deserving
of mercy." Other acts originating with him consolidated and unified the vast and complex body
of criminal statutes so as to simplify procedure, and facilitate the ends of justice. Some
conception of his services in this particular may be gained from the fact that "he secured
the repeal of two hundred and seventy-eight acts relating to the criminal law, embodying their
useful provisions in eight acts."

On Catholic emancipation Peel's process of conversion was slower. He steadily fought the proposals
for relief in the House of Commons as long as Lord Liverpool lived, and when Canning succeeded
to the premiership (1827), he resigned rather than serve under a pro-Catholic chief. When the
Tories came back to power under Wellington, in 1828, Peel resumed the Home Secretaryship, with
the leadership of the House of Commons, a position for which he possessed incomparable qualifications.
His second administration of the home department was distinguished by a series of radical improvements
in the criminal laws. One law for the punishment of offenses against the person took the place
of fifty-seven existing acts. In 1829 he replaced the ridiculous London watch with the police
force which has served as a model for many other large cities. Many who speak familiarly of
the blue-coated guardians of the peace as "Bobbies" and "Peelers" would be surprised to know
that these sobriquets constitute a popular tribute to the name of Robert Peel, the creator
of the model force.

These legal and administrative reforms, beneficent as they were, were not great party questions
like the two others which the Wellington government had to face, and gained so little credit
in the facing. The Whigs, under John Russell, urged the demand for the relief of Protestant
dissenters from their political disabilities by the repeal of the Test and Corporation Acts.
Peel argued against the change, but it was carried, nevertheless, and the Tories accepted the
measure with the best grace they could summon. Their resistance to Catholic emancipation cost
them more dearly. O'Connell, master of all the arts of agitation, fanned the excitement in
Ireland into flame. His Catholic Association made itself heard, and felt, and feared. In June,
1828, a member of the government standing for election for County Clare was soundly defeated
by O'Connell himself, a man whom the anti- Catholic laws disqualified from sitting in Parliament.
The government knew not which way to turn, and O'Connell, perceiving his advantage, lashed
his followers to the verge of an insurrection. This was the question on which George III. had
broken with William Pitt a generation before, and now it was only by the most vehement arguments,
and even by threats of resignation, that the ministers could obtain his son's consent to the
inevitable. In a speech of four hours' duration Peel explained the measures to the House of
Commons, confessing that the necessity under which he acted "was the severest blow it had ever
been his lot to experience." The speech was an admission of defeat, and an elaboration of the
measures by which the government, in the hour of concession, proposed to limit the "dangerous
power of the Roman Catholics." The bill became a law, and the Irish Catholic members began
to sit in Parliament--with some of the disturbing consequences which no one foresaw better
than Peel himself.

The Wellington ministry barely survived the strain of carrying Catholic emancipation. The year
1830 found Sir Robert Peel--the elder baronet having died--the leader of the opposition. In
this character he led his party against the Reform Bills of 1831-32. Their weak points were
mercilessly laid bare, and the excellences and past glories of the existing system were effectively
displayed. But nothing at that day could stop the progress of reform, as the King and peers
soon learned.

The defeat of the Tories in the first general election under the Reform Act was overwhelming.
They mustered less than one-fourth of the House of Commons. It seemed to most cool political
observers that the Whigs who now assumed office could not be displaced for a decade at least.
The spirit of change was alive in all the nations of western Europe, and in England there seemed
to be small need of a political party whose steady resistance to innovation was relieved only
by the exceptions in which the party had espoused reform in extremity to save its own existence.
Wellington and the rigid Tories of his stripe saw no hope for their party, and little enough
for England in the way along which she was plunging. Peel, however, was supremely suited to
the times. Bound to the party of Church and Crown by the traditions of his father, he nevertheless
was endowed with a mind which was not quite dominated by prejudice. The study of facts, the
examination of conflicting claims, the weighing of argument, had their full effect upon him,
and he had the courage of his convictions. At this juncture, when so much was shifting which
had anchored England to the past, Sir Robert Peel, with his clear-eyed vision, his trained
judgment, his honesty, and his moderation, formed a rallying point for those Tories who had
no other leader, and attracted to him moderate and enlightened men of whatever party who feared
the unbalanced radicalism of the day, and who were bent on preserving or conserving the best
elements which remained of the ancient Constitution of England. From such accretions grew up
a party which gradually dropped the name of Tory and adopted that of Conservative. One of Peel's
biographers, writing of this period as Peel's opportunity, says: "Since Conservatism, like
Liberalism, is an imperishable instinct in human nature, every society must contain a Conservative
party, and such a party speedily develops, even amid the wildest storm of revolution. The Reform
Act of 1832 had made room for a Conservative party suited to the age. The Tories had been weak
because their strength was confined to the landed interest. Possessed by a panic-dread of change,
bred by the events of the French Revolution, they had refused to admit any new interests to
a share of power. In their despite the Reform Act had transferred the control of politics from
the aristocracy to the middle class. But the English middle class was naturally Conservative.
It was orderly, it was rich, it was sensitive to social influence, it was devout and serious
in a stiff, unbending way. Some reforms certainly it required; an effective administration
for the great towns where it lived and traded; the amendment of a poor law which shocked all
its economic maxims; the abolition of negro slavery which revolted its religion; the abolition
of laws which, pressing hardly upon non-conformists, revolted its sense of justice. It had
not yet declared for free trade, although it might be expected to do so. The ameliorations
which the middle class at this time desired, Peel was ready to approve, and these ameliorations
once granted, the middle class would tend to be Conservative. But theirs would not be the conservatism
of squires and rectors. They would incline to a conservatism of their own, and they would want
a leader of their own to formulate it and to organize them. They would want a statesman who
was bone of their bone, and flesh of their flesh; a good man of business, cautious, but open
to practical suggestions, one who would satisfy their ideal of industry and economy; one who
would always be grave and decorous, never puzzle them with epigrams or alarm them with rhetoric;
in short, such a great man as they could conceive. Such Sir Robert Peel was. There never breathed
a politician more truly congenial to them. He represented their virtues and their failings;
he shared their talents and their prejudices; he was always growing in their confidence; and
when he died lamented by all his fellow-citizens, he was most deeply lamented by them."

With such tact and such mastery of the political situation did Peel conduct himself in the
years of opposition--now mildly criticising the government's policy, now joining forces with
it, and now tearing its policies to pieces--that he constantly grew in the national esteem,
and began to be looked upon as the inevitable successor of the Whigs. His turn came sooner
than any one expected, in December, 1834. It was too soon, in fact, for the first Peel ministry
could maintain itself but a few months, failing to secure a majority of Parliament. Yet in
this brief lease of power Peel gave evidence of his fitness to govern. He undertook the reform
of the ecclesiastical courts, gratified the Dissenters by proposing to remove the regulations
which required all marriages to be celebrated according to the rites of the Established Church.
He even addressed himself to the delicate question of settling the temporalities of the Established
Church in Ireland, where the collection of church tithes was accompanied with much disorder
and distress, arising from the fact that the vast majority of the tithe-payers were hostile
to the Protestant bishops and clergy whom they were taxed to support. The opposition, led by
John Russell, took advantage of the prejudices surrounding this subject and forced a succession
of adverse votes, in consequence of which the Peel ministry abandoned office in April, 1835,
after one hundred days of power--a period sometimes considered the most brilliant in Peel's
whole career.

For six years Sir Robert Peel remained in opposition, conducting himself so sagaciously as
to gather about him all disaffected elements of the disintegrating majority. Peel saw to it
that whatever popular measures of reform were carried by the Melbourne ministry should be credited
largely to Conservative support. It will afterwards be seen that this is a low point compared
with the whole scale, if we are to take as a criterion that parity of development which has
been observed in the embryo of one of the higher animals. The human embryo passes through the
whole space representing the invertebrate animals in the first month, a mere fraction of its
course. There is indeed a remarkably rapid change of forms in such an embryo at first: the rapidity,
says Professor Owen, is 'in proportion to the proximity of the ovum to the commencement of its development;'
and, conformable to this fact, we find the same zoologist stating
that, in the lowest division of the animal kingdom, (the Acrita of
his arrangement,) there is a much quicker advance of forms towards
the next above it, than is to be seen in subsequent departments.

There is, indeed, to the most ordinary observation, a rapidity and force in the productive powers
of the lowest animals, which might well suggest an explanation of that rush of life which
seems to be indicated in the slate and Silurian rocks. With regard to the so-called early occurrence
of fishes partaking of the saurian character, I would say that their occurrence a full formation
after the earliest and simplest fishes, is, considering how little we know of the space of time
represented by a formation, not early: their being later in any degree is the fact mainly important.
The subsequent rise of new orders of fishes, fully piscine in character,
may be explained by the supposition of their having been developed,
as is most likely, from a different portion of the inferior sub-kingdom.

In short, all the objections which have been made to the great fact of a general progress of
organic development throughout the geological ages, will be found, on close examination, to
refer merely to doubtful appearances of small moment, which vanish into nothing when rightly
understood."

Upon some of the chief points here involved, it may be remarked that
the most eminent physiologists are not agreed; they are not agreed
that animals can be arranged in a series, passing from lower to higher;
nor that animals of a higher kind in the embryo state pass through
the successive stages of the lower kinds; the character of these stages,
in the asserted doctrine, being taken from the brain and heart, and
man being the highest point of the series.

There are physiologists too who deny that the brain of the human embryo at any period, however
early, resembles the brain of any mollusk or of any articulata. It never, they assert, passes
through a stage comparable or analogous to a permanent condition of the same organ in any invertebrate
animal; and in like manner the spinal cord in the human vertebræ at no period agrees with the
corresponding part of the lower kind of animals. The moment it becomes visible in the human embryo,
it is entirely dorsal in position; while in mollusks and articulatas a great part, or nearly
the whole, is ventral. The same is true of the heart, or centre of the vascular system, which has
always a different relative position in the great nervous centre in the human embryo from what
it has in any articulate animal, and in most mollusks.
 Education in Ireland was aided
by grants to the Catholic College at Maynooth and by the establishment of other "Queen's colleges"
in affiliation with the university at Dublin.

In one way and another Ireland played a great part in the history of this administration. In
1843 the agitation of O'Connell, for the repeal of the union of Ireland with England, culminated
in immense and angry meetings which threatened the public peace. The government then took the
matter in hand, "proclaimed" the gatherings and arrested O'Connell. It was the failure of the
potato crop of 1845, and the consequent Irish famine which forced Peel to abandon the last
stronghold of protection and recommend the total and absolute repeal forever of all duties
on all articles of subsistence. The history of the repeal of the Corn Laws, in 1846, has already
been given. On the day on which the bill passed to its third reading in the House of Lords,
all the enemies of the government, led by Tory protectionists who considered themselves betrayed
by their own Prime Minister combined to overthrow him. On a bill for the protection of life
in Ireland Peel was defeated by seventy-three votes. Four days later, on relinquishing his
place at the head of the government he pronounced his memorable valedictory. He should leave
a name, he said, severely censured by many who deeply regretted the severance of party ties,
censured also by all sincere protectionists. "I shall leave a name execrated by every monopolist
who, from less honorable motives, clamors for protection because it conduces to his own individual
benefit. But it may be that I shall leave a name sometimes remembered with expressions of good
will in the abodes of those whose lot it is to labor and to earn their daily bread by the sweat
of their brow, when they shall recruit their exhausted strength with abundant and untaxed food,
the sweeter because it is no longer leavened by a sense of injustice."

Peel never returned to office. His conversion to free trade had split his party, and the Whigs,
under John Russell, succeeded to the direction of affairs. He remained in the House of Commons,
and with such personal following as yet remained to him, supported the administration. The
protectionists were rallied and led by George Bentinck and Benjamin Disraeli, whose star waxed
as Peel's began to wane. Death put a sudden end to his activity. He was thrown from his horse
while riding up Constitution Hill in London, and died on the second of July, 1850. In accordance
with his expressed wish, his family declined the honors of a public funeral, and he was buried
without ostentation in the family tomb at Drayton Bassett. His statue, voted by the House of
Commons, was placed in Westminster Abbey. Remarkable testimony this, concerning a great politician.
From Disraeli, who would perhaps be less drawn to this qualification of a statesman, comes
this word of praise, with many of detraction: "Nature had combined in Sir Robert Peel many
admirable parts. In him a physical frame incapable of fatigue was united with an understanding
equally vigorous and flexible. He was gifted with the faculty of method in the highest degree,
and with great powers of application, which were sustained by a prodigious memory, while he
could communicate his acquisitions with clear and fluent elocution. Such a man under any circumstances
and in any sphere of life would probably have become remarkable. Ordained from his youth to
be busied with the affairs of a great empire, such a man, after long years of observation,
practice, and perpetual discipline, would have become what Sir Robert Peel was in the latter
portion of his life--a transcendent administrator of public business and a matchless master
of debate in a popular assembly."

The masterly debater never rose to heights of eloquence. His thorough and practical mind enabled
him to study, sift, and give form and substance to the broad political and economic conceptions
of more idealistic men. Inheriting the narrow political creed of his father, he can scarcely
be blamed if his mind came slowly to advanced positions. Rather shall he not be commended who,
with such prepossessions and prejudices, and with such party co-workers, keeps his mind open
to conviction? "The resumption of cash payments, the amendment of the criminal law, the institution
of the Irish constabulary and the London police, Catholic emancipation and the emancipation
of trade, and a host of reforms only less beneficial than these make up a record of useful
labor which has seldom been surpassed."

QUESTIONS FOR REVIEW

1.  What unusual preparation had Peel for his public career? 2.  Upon what political question
did he and his father separate? 3.  Describe his relations to Ireland as Chief Secretary. 4.
What services did he render to criminal law? 5.  What police reform is due to him? 6.  What
two famous party questions did he resist, but finally of necessity accept? 7.  Why was Peel
especially fitted to lead the new Conservative party, formed after 1832? 8.  What fitness to
govern did Peel show in his first ministry? 9.  How did he serve his country as a member of
the opposition? 10. How did he meet the financial needs of England in his second ministry?
11. How did his enemies finally overthrow him? 12. Why is Peel's life, in view of his inheritance,
especially worthy of honor?

BIBLIOGRAPHY

SIR ROBERT PEEL.    J. R. Thursfield. SIR ROBERT PEEL.    Justin McCarthy. BIOGRAPHICAL STUDIES.
Walter Bagehot.

VIII

SHAFTESBURY AND PHILANTHROPY

[ANTONY ASHLEY COOPER, Seventh Earl of Shaftesbury, born April 28, 1801; died October 1, 1885;
educated at Harrow and Christ Church, Oxford (first-class in classics, 1822); Member of Parliament
1826; bore a leading hand in legislation for improving condition of laboring classes; President
of Ragged School Union, etc.; succeeded to the earldom on the death of his father, in 1851.]

The industrial expansion of England in the nineteenth century was not a blessing unalloyed.
It built great cities and created enormous wealth, and gave employment at advanced wages to
a vastly increased population. But it brought with it changes in the social condition of the
laboring classes which were productive of severe hardship.

The England of the olden time had been an agricultural country whose laborers, though poorly
paid, either worked under mild conditions in the fields, or followed their trades in their
cottages and workshops. The introduction of the steam engine brought with it a demand for fuel
which forced thousands of men, women, and children to delve in the mines, and the use of machines
and the adoption of the factory system shut up other thousands of both sexes, and all ages,
to labor for excessive hours in crowded cities under unsanitary conditions. At the present
time the system of legislation regarding the employment of women and minors, and the regulation
of unsanitary conditions of labor is so thorough that it is difficult to conceive that it has
all been of recent growth. When the enemies of the abuses in mine and factory first raised
their voices in the British Parliament, they were even told that such things were not proper
subjects of legislation. In the opening years of the century the elder Robert Peel had attacked
one of the foulest of industrial abuses--the "apprentice system." Under this system the pauper
children of London and the south of England were rented out to the tender mercies of the avaricious
cotton manufacturers of the north. From the age of seven they were compelled to work in the
mills at long hours, under unhealthful conditions, and without opportunity of education or
proper recreation. When not at work they were huddled in comfortless barracks little better
than slave-pens. No wonder they grew up to be hopeless and brutalized, if they were so unfortunate
as to survive the arduous period of their industrial bondage--for it was no less than that.
Peel's act of 1802, and other remedial legislation which supplemented it, did away with the
worst features of this white slavery, but the general condition of the women and children in
the English factories and mines continued to be such as to move deeply the sympathies of the
humane.

In the year 1833 the little group of humanitarian leaders who had succeeded in turning the
attention of the nation to the disgraceful condition of child labor, were striving to get a
hearing in the House of Commons for their "short time" proposal-- a law framed by Michael Thomas
Sadler, for the purpose of limiting the hours of child labor in textile factories to ten hours
a day. Sadler had lost his seat in Parliament, and a new spokesman was needed for the cause.
The committee ventured to ask Lord Ashley to take charge of the bill, and his acceptance enlisted
in the humanitarian movement a young man who was destined to be its champion for half a century.

Antony Ashley Cooper, then sitting in the House of Commons under the name of Lord Ashley, and
after 1851 known to the world as the seventh Earl of Shaftesbury, was one of the most remarkable
Englishmen of the century. This new-found champion of the working-classes was born in London,
April 28, 1801. His father was the sixth Earl of Shaftesbury, and his mother was a daughter
of the third Earl of Marlborough. The father's preoccupation in public life and his mother's
social duties left the early home training of the lad to a pious domestic, an earnest Christian,
whose precepts and example did more than anything else to give bent to his life. In later years
the Earl freely owned his mother's housekeeper to be the best friend he had ever had. "And sometimes
I pray to the Holy Madonna to send him oftener, and once she did. But I must go back to my
bimbo now. I'll bring it to show you to-morrow. You would like to see it. Sometimes it cries
and makes a face, but only when it's hungry, Monna Lisa says.

You wouldn't think it, but Monna Lisa had babies once, and they are all dead old men. My husband
says she will never die now, because she's so well dried. I'm glad of that, for I'm fond of her.
You would like to stay here to-morrow, shouldn't you?"

"I should like to have this place to come and rest in, that's all," said Baldassarre. "I would
pay for it, and harm nobody."

"No, indeed; I think you are not a bad old man. But you look sorry about something. Tell me, is
there anything you shall cry about when I leave you by yourself? I used to cry once."

"No, child; I think I shall cry no more."

"That's right; and I'll bring you some breakfast, and show you the bimbo. Good-night."

Tessa took up her bowl and lantern, and closed the door behind her. The pretty loving apparition
had been no more to Baldassarre than a faint rainbow on the blackness
to the man who is wrestling in deep waters.

He hardly thought of her again till his dreamy waking passed into the more vivid images of
disturbed sleep.

But Tessa thought much of him. She had no sooner entered the house than she told Monna Lisa what she
had done, and insisted that the stranger should be allowed to come and rest in the outhouse
when he liked. The old woman, who had had her notions of making him a useful tenant, made
a great show of reluctance, shook her head, and urged that Messer Naldo would be angry if she let
any one come about the house. Tessa did not believe that. Naldo had said nothing against strangers
who lived nowhere; and this old man knew nobody except one person,
who was not Nofri.

"Well," conceded Monna Lisa, at last, "if I let him stay for a while and carry things up the
hill for me, thou must keep thy counsel and tell nobody."

"No," said Tessa, "I'll only tell the bimbo."

"And then," Monna Lisa went on, in her thick undertone, "God may love us well enough not to
let Messer Naldo find out anything about it. For he never comes here but at dark; and as he was
here two days ago, it's likely he'll never come at all till the old man's gone away again."

"Oh me! Monna," said Tessa, clasping her hands, "I wish Naldo had not to go such a long, long
way sometimes before he comes back again."

"Ah, child! the world's big, they say. There are places behind the mountains, and if people go
night and day, night and day, they get to Rome, and see the Holy Father."

Tessa looked submissive in the presence of this mystery, and began to rock her baby, and sing syllables
of vague loving meaning, in tones that imitated a triple chime.

The next morning she was unusually industrious in the prospect of more dialogue, and of the pleasure
she should give the poor old stranger by showing him her baby. But before she could get ready
to take Baldassarre his breakfast, she found that Monna Lisa had
been employing him as a drawer of water. She deferred her paternosters,
and hurried down to insist that Baldassarre should sit on his straw,
so that she might come and sit by him again while he ate his breakfast.
That attitude made the new companionship all the more delightful to
Tessa, for she had been used to sitting on straw in old days along
with her goats and mules.

"I will not let Monna Lisa give you too
much work to do," she said, bringing him some steaming broth and soft
bread. "I don't like much work, and I daresay you don't. I like sitting
in the sunshine and feeding things. Monna Lisa says, work is good,
but she does it all herself, so I don't mind. She's not a cross old
woman; you needn't be afraid of her being cross. And now, you eat
that, and I'll go and fetch my baby and show it you."

Presently she
came back with the small mummy-case in her arms. The mummy looked
very lively, having unusually large dark eyes, though no more than
the usual indication of a future nose.

"This is my baby," said Tessa,
seating herself close to Baldassarre. "You didn't think it was so
pretty, did you? It is like the little Gesu, and I should think the
Santa Madonna would be kinder to me now, is it not true? But I have
not much to ask for, because I have everything now--only that I should
see my husband oftener. You may hold the bambino a little if you like,
but I think you must not kiss him, because you might hurt him." Manufacturers
as high-minded as Cobden and Bright did not scruple to say--as doubtless they believed--that
the outcry against the manufacturers sprang from the desire of the landowners to harass the
opponents of "the tax on bread." John Bright answered Lord Ashley's arguments for the ten hours'
clause in the bill of 1844 in a speech as vindictive as it was eloquent. Though Ashley was
again defeated, at this time the new Factory Act, which was passed, carried farther the principles
of the original law. In 1845 his calico print-works measure brought relief to thousands of
weary little hands, and in 1847 the long- worked-for and earnestly prayed-for Ten-Hours Bill
became a law. Lord Ashley had resigned his seat in Parliament, but had not relaxed his efforts
in behalf of the bill which he had borne on his heart for fourteen years. Praised be the Lord!
Praised be the Lord in Christ Jesus!" The operatives received the news with tumultuous joy,
for the act brought substantial relief to fully three hundred and sixty thousand persons, more
than two-thirds of all the operatives then employed in the textile industries of the kingdom.

The manufacturers who attributed Ashley's professions of friendship for their employees to
his class hatred of their masters little knew the man. His sympathies were engaged in behalf
of the poor and weak in every calling, and the mill-hands were only the first whose cause he
championed. The manufacturers had sometimes sought to divert attention from their own shortcomings
by pointing to the greater hardship of the colliery workers, and in 1840 Lord Ashley took up
this subject by moving for a parliamentary commission to inquire into the employment of the
children of the poorer classes in mines and collieries. The first report of this commission,
issued in 1842, is one of the most appalling of public documents. Sworn testimony was presented
to show that much of the underground labor was performed by children under thirteen years of
age, and that little boys and girls were set to work in the dark and noisome tunnels at the
age of five. First as "trappers" these child laborers opened and shut the trap-doors in the
passages of the mine. The stronger children, boys and girls alike, dragged and pushed the little
coal wagons along the narrow passages--the roofs too low for them to stand upright, often so
low as to compel them to creep on all- fours in the black slime of the floors. Some with laden
baskets on their backs climbed many times a day up steep ascents. Some stood ankle-deep in
water from morning till night in the depths of the pit, wearing out their little lives at the
hand- pumps.

So sang Elizabeth Barrett of the sorrows of the children of the mines and mills in those dismal
days, and it must be said for the great heart of England that its beat was still true. The
coal- owners made the pitiful plea in extenuation of all the misery and indecency of the mines
that without the labor of women and children the collieries must shut down, not only for lack
of profit, but for the cogent reason that the flexible vertebra of childhood were especially
adapted to the constrained positions required in the tunnels, and that there could be no good
colliers unless as children they became inured to the privations and hardships of the life.
The government tried to keep the report out of the hands of the indignant public, but "by a
most providential mistake," as Lord Ashley believed, it got into circulation, to the horror
and disgust of all right-minded persons. The press joined in the cry for remedial legislation.
Ashley's speech in support of his Mines and Collieries Bill made an unusual impression in the
House of Commons. Even Cobden, who had been ready to sneer at the "philanthropists" who opposed
the repeal of the tax on bread, came over to the orator's side at the conclusion of his two
hours' plea, and wringing his hand heartily, declared, "I don't think I have ever been put
into such a frame of mind in all my life." From this time he no longer entertained doubts of
Ashley's sincerity. The Queen and Prince Albert added their personal support. The government
threw obstacles in the way of the bill, and the peers mutilated it, but Ashley's persistency
carried it at last. Henceforth women and girls and boys under ten were excluded from underground
work, and a system of mine inspection was established to secure the observance of the law.
Such a triumph for morality and humanity was worth more to England than many battles won by
force of arms.

There has been no retreat from the positions to which Lord Ashley carried the legislative protection
of the working-classes. From time to time the Factory Laws were extended to cover the special
demands of other industries, until the state had literally taken under its protection the whole
class of children and young persons employed in manufacturing industries. It has done this
in the name of the moral and physical health of the community. The general laws governing factories
and workshops now cover a very wide scope. It is required that the building must be kept clean
and sanitary; that dangerous machinery must be boxed and fenced; the hours of labor and meal-time
for women and children are fixed, and children under ten may not be employed; certain holidays
and half-holidays must be allowed to all "protected" persons; child-workers must go to school
a certain proportion of the week; medical certificates of fitness for employment are required
in the case of children; and notice of accidents causing loss of life or bodily injury must
be sent to the government inspector. Many co-operated to bring about these results, but the
chief advocate of all the beneficent reforms which have reinvigorated the English working-classes,
saved the women from slavish toil and given them opportunity to make homes for their families,
rescued the children from benumbing toil, and given them time for healthful recreation and
mental improvement, is, by the common award of all, this simple-hearted Christian, Antony Ashley
Cooper.

On the fly-leaf of a book in his library the Earl of Shaftesbury noted in pencil some of the
obstacles which beset his progress when seeking the good of the distressed children: "I had
to break every political connection, to encounter a most formidable array of capitalists, mill-owners,
doctrinaires, and men who by natural impulse hate all 'humanity mongers' (tell it riot in Gath!)
among the Radicals, the Irishmen, and a few sincere Whigs and Conservatives.....Peel was hostile.....Fielden
and Brotherton were the only 'practical' men who supported me, and to practical prophecies
of overthrow of trade, of ruin to the operatives themselves, I could only oppose 'humanity'
and general principles. The newspapers were on the whole friendly. Out of Parliament there
was in society every form of 'good-natured' and compassionate contempt.....In few instances
did any mill-owner appear on a platform with me; in still fewer the ministers of any religious
denomination--so cowed were they (or in themselves so indifferent) by the overwhelming influence
of the cotton-lords."

Among his opponents Shaftesbury reckoned Peel, who continually sought to silence him by giving
him government offices; Bright, whose malignant opposition has already been noticed; Cobden,
though latterly a convert; O'Connell, Brougham, and even Gladstone, "the only member who voted
to delay the bill which delivered women and children from the mines and pits."

It is foreign to the purpose of this sketch to pursue the later labors of Lord Shaftesbury;
his zeal for education; his warm espousal of the cause of ragged schools for the instruction
of the waifs of the London streets; his successful agitation in favor of the pitiable chimney-sweeps;
in short, his support of every cause which appealed to his sympathy for the neglected classes,
or which promised to benefit humanity physically, morally, intellectually, or spiritually.
He was the president of scores of organizations devoted to Christian and philanthropic work,
and until the close of his long and useful life, his voice and influence could always be counted
on to assist such worthy causes. As his end approached his only regret was "I cannot bear to
leave the world with all the misery in it." The Dean of Westminster's suggestion that the Abbey
should be his last resting-place, he brushed aside in favor of the parish church of St. Giles,
where his boyhood had been passed. He died on the 1st of October, 1885, at Folkestone, where
he had been taken for the invigorating sea breezes. Perhaps the old Abbey Church of Westminster
never saw a funeral where so many classes of English society gathered to pay respect to a dead
earl. Costermongers, climbing-boys, boot-blacks, cripples, flower-girls sat with royalty, bishops,
peers, and commoners in sincere mourning for a nobleman who was indeed a noble man.

QUESTIONS FOR REVIEW

1.  What social changes accompanied the industrial expansion of England? 2.  What was the "apprentice
system"? 3.  Under what influences did Lord Ashley pass his childhood and youth? 4.  How was
the Factory Law of 1833 secured, and what did it require? 5.  How did Lord Ashley prepare for
a new Factory Act? 6.  What opposition did he meet from the Anti-Corn Law workers? 7.  How
was the passage of the "Ten-Hours Bill" in 1847 received? 8.  What conditions were revealed
by the report on mines and collieries? 9.  Describe the events which led to the passage of
Ashley's bill? 10. What factory laws have since been enacted? 11. What various kinds of opposition
did Shaftesbury meet in his efforts for reform? 12. To what other needy causes did he devote
the remaining years of his life?

BIBLIOGRAPHY

LIFE AND WORK OF LORD SHAFTESBURY. Edwin Hodder. HISTORY OF THE FACTORY MOVEMENT.  Alfred.

IX

LORD PALMERSTON AND FOREIGN RELATIONS

[HENRY JOHN TEMPLE, Viscount Palmerston, born October 20, 1784, near Romsey, Hampshire; died
October 18, 1865, Brocket Hall; succeeded to the title and the Irish peerage in 1802; educated
at Harrow and Cambridge; Member of Parliament, 1807; at once made a Junior Lord of the Admiralty;
1809-1828, Secretary at War; about 1830 joined Whig party; 1830-41,1846-51, Secretary for Foreign
Affairs; 1852-55, Home Secretary; 1855-58, 1859-65, Prime Minister and First Lord of the Treasury.
Buried in Westminster Abbey.]

The Peace is the accepted name for the condition which succeeded in England the generation
which had been spent in the wars with France and the first Napoleon. For forty years after
the Battle of Waterloo (1815), this condition was unruffled by actual hostilities between England
and any European power, unless that "untoward event" the Battle of Navarino (1827) and the
bombardment of Antwerp (1832) should be so considered. Petty wars with the native princes of
India and on the Afghan frontier occurred from time to time, it is true, and the infamous Opium
War was waged against China (1839-42), but until the Crimean Campaigns (1853-56) and the Indian
Mutiny (1857) the war spirit of the nation was never stirred to its depths. Continental Europe
during these years passed through many convulsions. Bloody revolutions shook many states, and
Prussia, Austria, Denmark, Turkey, and Italy were involved in wars. The hand that piloted England
among the rocks of the tortuous channel of foreign politics for nearly a generation was that
of Lord Palmerston, for nearly twenty years Foreign Secretary and twice Prime Minister of the
Queen's government.

Henry John Temple was the descendant of an historic English family, and was born on the Temple
estates at Broadlands in Hampshire, October 20, 1784. He was, therefore, four years older than
Sir Robert Peel, whom he long survived, and twelve years the senior of his sometime colleague,
Lord John Russell. From Harrow, where he was reckoned the jolliest boy in the school, and the
pluckiest fighter, he was sent to Edinburgh in charge of Dugald Stewart, one of the great Scottish
teachers of the time, and thence, after three years under exceptional educative influences,
to Cambridge. His father's death had given him the title of Viscount Palmerston in the Irish
peerage, and before receiving his degree, his ambition led him to offer himself to the university
as its candidate for the House of Commons. Though rejected there, a pocket borough was provided
for him, and in 1807, at the age of twenty-three, he took his seat as a member for Newtown,
a borough in which he had never set foot. An office was soon found for him in the Perceval
government as Secretary at War, a post which was charged with the supervision and control of
military expenditure and accounts--no small responsibility at this juncture. During his score
of years in this capacity the young Palmerston gave evidence of superior abilities as a bureau
chief, while on the floor of the House his speeches marked him as a stanch asserter of the
power of England, and a dangerous man to trifle with--so quick and powerful was his gift of
repartee. During the brief ministries of Canning and Goderich he received flattering offers
of advancement, leaving the cabinet in May, 1828, with Canning's followers, who opposed the
government of Wellington.

The young aristocrat who had impressed some of his school-fellows as having no ambitions higher
than to be a courtier, had forsaken "pigtail Toryism," as he called it, and was developing
along liberal lines. He had been a consistent advocate of Catholic emancipation, an admirer
of Canning's broad views, and hospitable to moderate propositions for the reform of Parliament.
When Lord Grey's government was formed, in 1830, he naturally accepted office under it, becoming
what he had long wished to be, Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. Except for a few months
he was the spokesman of England in the world's councils until the downfall of the Whigs, in 1841.

For the duties of his office Palmerston had many qualifications. His long training in public
business; his familiarity not only with the languages of western Europe, but with foreign public
men, and the national customs and peculiar modes of thought and feeling; his social faculty
which gave him ready access to the minds of others; and his unfailing confidence in his country
and in himself, brought him well off from a hundred diplomatic battles. As time went on the
nation recognized in him some of its own most striking characteristics, and his popularity
at last transcended party lines. In Lord Palmerston "John Bull" recognized himself.

Of the governing principles of his foreign policy Palmerston's own statement, made in 1848,
is as good as can be given. It was not based upon any permanent alliance with other states,
but provided for such freedom of action as should secure the "balance of power" in Europe,
lest any single state should become a menace, like France in the Napoleonic era. Palmerston's
statement was, "As long as England sympathizes with right and justice she will never find herself
alone. She is sure to find some other state of sufficient power, influence, and weight to support
and aid her in the course she may think fit to pursue. Therefore I say that it is a narrow
policy to suppose that this country or that is marked out as the perpetual ally or the perpetual
enemy of England. We have no eternal allies, and we have no perpetual enemies. Our interests
are eternal and perpetual, and those interests it is our duty to follow. And if I might be
allowed to express in one sentence the principle which I think ought to guide an English minister,
I would adopt the expression of Canning, and say that with every British ministry the interests
of England ought to be the shibboleth of policy."

The achievement of Belgian independence was the first and almost greatest success of the new
Foreign Secretary. When the powers at Vienna, in 1815, were rearranging the map of Europe they
had joined Belgium with Holland as the kingdom of the Netherlands, with the idea of forestalling
any further advance of France in that quarter. The union was unnatural. Race, language, and
religion were opposed to it, and in 1830, the Belgians revolted. A congress of the powers met
in London to labor for a peaceful solution. Between the claims of Holland and the aggressive
policy of France, a rupture was with difficulty avoided. But eventually, by tact and firmness,
Palmerston had his way, and Belgium became an independent state, without precipitating a general
European war.

The formation of the Quadruple Alliance was the next incident in this vigorous foreign policy.
Portugal and Spain were plunged in civil wars, the pretenders, Don Miguel and Don Carlos, attempting
to wrest the scepter from the hands of the constitutional queens. Austria, preparing to interfere
in behalf of despotism, was met, in 1834, by the announcement that a treaty of alliance had
been signed by the four powers-- England, France, Spain, and Portugal. Though it remained in
force but a short time it served its purpose.

The Eastern Question next took on threatening form. Mehemet Ali, Pasha of Egypt, rose against
the Turkish Sultan, and his son, Ibrahim, invaded Syria and threatened Constantinople itself.
The Turkish empire seemed about to break in two, France supporting the Pasha, and so gaining
a foothold in Egypt, and Russia befriending the Porte, and advancing her frontier to the Bosphorus.
Such a consummation would have interposed two hostile powers between England and her Indian
empire. In July, 1840, Palmerston completed the Quadrilateral Alliance, by which England, Russia,
Austria, and Prussia agreed to restore peace in the Porte's dominions. This bold stroke, backed
by England's warlike attitude, and Palmerston's characteristic threat that "Mehemet Ali will
just be chucked into the Nile" took the spirit out of the French government. Mehemet Ali was
left to make the best terms he could with the Quadrilateral, and the crisis was at an end.
This was in July, 1841. The next month the Whig ministry fell, and Sir Robert Peel returned
to power. Palmerston went out of office with flying colors. "He had created Belgium, saved
Portugal and Spain from Absolutism, rescued Turkey from Russia, and the highway to India from
France." It is true that the picture had another side, and that the very brilliancy of his
moves, the cleverness with which he played the game of diplomacy, and his recklessness of the
interests of foreign courts left feelings of bitterness and defeat in the hearts of many European
and American statesmen. His enemies called him a bully, and denounced his methods as "high
handed," but his countrymen were satisfied.

From 1841 to 1846, as a member of the opposition, the ex- Minister exercised his functions
as a critic of the spiritless foreign policy of Lord Aberdeen, for which he could find no better
name than "antiquated imbecility." Upon Peel's overthrow, after the repeal of the Corn Laws
(1846), he resumed the foreign portfolio in the Cabinet of Lord John Russell.

At once the question of the "Spanish marriages" became acute. King Louis Philippe of France,
and his Minister, Guizot, had been plotting to marry the child-queen, Isabella of Spain, to
her worthless cousin, Don Francisco, and her sister, the Infanta, to the Duc de Montpensier,
Louis Philippe's brother, with results most promising to the King and to France, but most distasteful
to England, as Palmerston was prompt to declare, "Such an objection on our part may seem uncourteous
and may be displeasing, but the friendships of states and governments must be founded on natural
interests and not upon personal likings." Yet despite these protests, the marriages were celebrated.
France seemed to have outwitted Palmerston for once. But vengeance was not long delayed. The
"Citizen King" had few friends among the monarchical states of the Continent, and in forfeiting
the friendship of England he kicked away one of the props of his own throne. Within two years
came the Revolution of 1848, which cost him his crown.

Eighteen hundred and forty-eight was a year of revolutions. Throughout western Europe the popular
aspirations were struggling for expression. Constitutional government was clamorously demanded,
and the despotism which had ground the Italian states under the heel of Hapsburg and Bourbon
was for the moment shaken. Through her outspoken Foreign Secretary England let her liberal
sympathies be known, but even Palmerston was careful to keep within the bounds of peaceful
protest, avoiding all provocation to war.

In April, 1847, at Athens, the house of Don Pacifico, a Portuguese Jew born on British soil
at Gibraltar, was destroyed by a mob of Jew-baiters. As a British citizen he put in a claim
for damages and asked the foreign office to collect it. Palmerston had other scores to settle
with Greece, and when his demands met with slow response, he sent a British fleet to the Piraeus
to lay hands on Greek shipping. Greece appealed to France and Russia for protection. The trouble
grew to such proportions that the British Parliament took it up. The Lords censured the government
for its harsh and unjust treatment of a friendly state. In the Commons a vote of confidence
in the foreign policy was moved, and on this question Lord Palmerston delivered the greatest
speech of his life. It was an exposition and defense of his entire official career, and no
argument could break the force with Englishmen of the triumphant sentence in which it culminated.
"I fearlessly challenge the verdict which this House, as representing a political, a commercial,
a constitutional country, is to give on the question before it; whether the principles on which
the foreign policy of this country has been conducted, and the sense of duty which has led
us to think ourselves bound to afford protection to our fellow- subjects abroad, are proper
and fitting guides for those who are charged with the government of England, and whether as
the Roman in the days of old held himself free from indignity when he could say 'Civis Romanus
sum,' so also a British subject, in whatever land he be, shall feel confident that the watchful
eye and the strong arm of England shall protect him against injustice and wrong!"

This "Civis Romanus" speech raised the orator to the highest pitch of popular regard. But the
premier had found him a very troublesome colleague on account of his confirmed practice of
committing the government on important matters without consulting with his chief. He was warned
by the Queen's personal memorandum that this habit must cease, but an unpardonable case occurred
in 1851. Prince Louis Napoleon Bonaparte, president of the French republic, executed his coup
d'etat and overthrew the constitutional government. Without consulting Queen or Premier, and
contrary to their express desire, Palmerston, in conversation with the French ambassador, approved
the bold stroke of the Prince-President. For this indiscretion Lord Russell summarily dismissed
him.

When Lord Palmerston again took a portfolio, it was to be Home Secretary in the coalition cabinet
of Lord Aberdeen (1852-55). He had become the warm friend and admirer of Lord Shaftesbury,
whose mother-in-law, Lady Cowper, was now Lady Palmerston, the most gracious and skilful helpmeet
that any statesman could wish to have. His inclination and his position enabled him to put
through much legislation suggested by the philanthropic peer for the welfare of the working-
classes. His knowledge of foreign affairs was at the service of the government, and came into
active play when the Czar's claim to a protectorate over all Greek Christians in the Turkish
empire brought the Eastern Question again to a fever heat, in 1853. The Czar Nicholas had said
in a conversation with the British Minister concerning the political weakness of Turkey, "We
have on our hands a sick man- -a very sick man; it will be a great mistake if one of these
days he should slip away from us before the necessary arrangements have been made." His idea
of "arrangements" was that Turkey in Europe should fall under Russian protection, leaving England
free to control her direct route to India by way of Cyprus and Egypt. English diplomacy encouraged
the Sultan to reject the Russian claim to the uttermost. The result was war. Turkey first declared
it against the Russians, who had already invaded her Danubian principalities. Palmerston held
that it was the duty of Europe to preserve the balance of power by preventing Russia from aggrandizing
herself at the expense of Turkey, and when the Czar refused to withdraw from the principalities
England joined with France in declaring the war, which, from the scene of its chief operations
against Russia, has since been called the Crimean. Forty years had passed since Waterloo and
war was an exciting novelty for British youth. England plunged into it with enthusiasm, but
the feeble and incompetent prosecution of the campaign against Sebastopol, with the mismanagement
of commissary and hospitals, evoked a storm of opposition, before which the Aberdeen ministry
collapsed. Lord Palmerston was the natural choice of Queen and nation to succeed him. He became
Prime Minister in February, 1855, and though past his seventieth year, his energy put a new
face on the military situation, and his diplomacy gained a substantial advantage over Russia
in the Treaty of Paris (March, 1856), which closed the inglorious conflict, and postponed for
twenty years her advance toward the Bosphorus. The Queen, who had many reasons to dislike the
personality of her chief minister, honored him with the Garter, in recognition of his services
to the state.

Palmerston's government held together until early in 1858, handling with vigor the various
problems of Eastern policy which grew out of the Crimean War, waging the brief expeditionary
wars with China and Persia, and dealing with characteristic decision and pluck with the great
Sepoy Mutiny in India, in 1857. To Palmerston belongs the credit of selecting the right person
in Sir Colin Campbell to restore the British power in the revolted provinces, and his ready
optimism helped to nerve the nation in this year of trial. John Bull felt a new pride in "Old
Pam" when, in his Mansion House speech, in this time of national foreboding, he served notice
on any foreign nation whom it might concern that "it would not be a safe game to play to take
advantage of that which is erroneously imagined to be the moment of our weakness."

Palmerston's willingness to alter the English conspiracy laws for the sake of the Emperor of
the French, whose life had been attempted by the assassin Orsini, cost him his official head
in February, 1858. The second Derby administration which ensued lasted but fifteen months,
giving way, in June of the following year, to Palmerston's second and last government, with
a brilliant array of advisers; Earl Russell as Foreign Secretary, and Mr. William Ewart Gladstone
as Chancellor of the Exchequer. The lifelong determination to spare nothing which might be
required for the defense of his country was still strong within him, as is shown by his strenuous
advocacy of increased armaments, better coast defenses, and more and more powerful ships. "He
never ceased for a single moment to keep before the nation the great lesson that empires are
kept as they are gained, by courage and self-reliance."

The Civil War in America afforded one of the latest opportunities for the display of his characteristics
in dealing with foreign affairs. The sentiment of the ruling class in England, the class to
which Lord Palmerston was allied by birth, interest, and lifelong political association, openly
showed its sympathy with the Southern side. Moreover, the English cotton-mills were shut down
for lack of the raw staple, and English merchants looked longingly at the blockaded markets
of the Confederacy. The Prime Minister, true to his guiding principle, made "the interests
of England" the watchword of his policy. He was prompt to recognize the "belligerent rights"
of the revolted states against an angry protest from the Union side; he was strenuous in his
demand for apology and restitution in the case of the Confederate envoys whom Captain Wilkes,
U.S.N., seized on board the British steamer "Trent"; and he taxed the endurance of Mr. Lincoln's
government to the uttermost by allowing the "Alabama" and other Confederate commerce-destroyers
to be built and outfitted in British ports. Not even the heavy bill of damages which his country
had to pay at Geneva for this breach of neutrality has softened the bitterness of feeling which
his action at that time engendered in the United States. If Lord Palmerston was the embodiment
of "John Bull," he here exhibited the national character at its worst.

The "evergreen" premier, vigorous almost to the last, died at Brocket in October, 1865. He
had outlived many of the traits which had laid him open to attack and criticism in his younger
days, and had gained in weight and dignity. The knowledge of what he had done for England,
how he had stood for her interests in the Commons, and won victories for her in foreign courts,
and had penetrated and frustrated the designs of her enemies, gave him a splendid position
in the esteem of English patriots. They even looked kindly upon his foibles, his foppish attire,
his fondness for the turf, and his frivolous gayety, which shone undaunted when the national
gloom was blackest. When he died there was a general belief that England had lost a son who
had spared nothing in laboring for her aggrandizement, and he went to his last resting-place
in Westminster Abbey as one who had earned a place among her most useful servants.

QUESTIONS FOR REVIEW

1.  Describe the early career of Palmerston. 2.  How was he especially qualified for the position
of Secretary of Foreign Affairs? 3.  What was the chief principle of his foreign policy? 4.
How was the independence of Belgium brought about? 5.  What was the work of the Quadruple Alliance?
6.  How did Palmerston deal with the Egyptian revolt and why? 7.  What was England's attitude
toward the "Spanish Marriage"? 8.  Describe the "Civis Romanus" speech and the reasons for
it. 9.  Why was Lord Palmerston dismissed from the Cabinet? 10. What conditions brought on
the Crimean War and what was England's share in it? 11. What was Palmerston's attitude in the
American Civil War? 12. How did England regard the premier in the last years of his life?

BIBLIOGRAPHY

LIFE OF VISCOUNT PALMERSTON. Lord Dolling and Bulwer. VISCOUNT PALMERSTON.         L. C. Sanders.
HENRY HAVELOCK.             (English Men of Action Series.) THE INDIAN MUTINY.           G.
B. Malleson. THE WAR IN THE CRIMEA.       Gen. Sir Edward Hamley.

X

GLADSTONE AND THE IRISH QUESTION

[WILLIAM EWART GLADSTONE, born, Liverpool, December 29, 1809; died, Hawarden, Flintshire, Wales,
May 19, 1898; educated at Eton and Christ Church College, Oxford University (double first-
class, 1831); Member of Parliament for Newark as a Tory, 1832 46; wrote, 1838, "The State in
its Relations with the Church"; held minor financial offices in Peel administration; 1843-45,
President of Board of Trade; 1847-65, Member of Parliament for Oxford University; 1852, Chancellor
of the Exchequer under Lord Aberdeen; 1858, Commissioner to the Ionian Islands; 1859, Chancellor
of the Exchequer under Lord Palmerston; 1865, defeated as candidate for Oxford but returned
for South Lancashire as a Liberal; leader of House of Commons; proposes radical Reform Bill;
1868, Member of Parliament for Greenwich; 1868-74, Premier (I.); Disestablishes Irish Church;
carries National Educational Law, Ballot Law, Irish Land Act; abolishes purchase in the army;
resigns Liberal leadership in 1875, and publishes works on ecclesiastical controversy; 1876,
attacks Disraeli's Eastern policy in letters on Bulgarian atrocities; 1880, Member of Parliament
for Midlothian; 1880-85, Premier (II.); Irish Coercion Acts; new Land Acts; Arrears of Rent
Act; Franchise and Redistribution Acts; 1886, Premier (III.); First Home Rule Bill Fails; 1892-94,
Premier (IV.); 1893, Second Home Rule Bill carried through the Commons, thrown out by the Lords;
retires from public life March, 1894; buried in Westminster Abbey.]

From the first day of the nineteenth century to the last the statesmen of England have had
one standing problem to face. It might come up under various forms and disguises, and it might
seem to demand various remedies, but in some shape or other the woes of Ireland have always
furnished the test of practical statesmanship, and have often been the rock on which proud
administrations have met with disaster.

By nature Ireland would seem formed for peace and plenty. Happily located with the protecting
bulwark of Great Britain between their emerald isle and foreign foes, blessed with a mild and
equable climate, and inhabiting an island of singular fertility, the Irish would seem to have
been marked for fortune's favors. Yet such has been the misgovernment of the English that the
Irish have seen their paternal acres pass into the hands of aliens and absentees, their religion
made a brand of shame and outlawry, their Parliament corrupted and done away, their industries
crippled and bound down, and themselves reduced to wretched poverty.

At the outset of the century the Act of Union went into effect, abolishing the Irish Parliament
and admitting Irish (Protestant) Lords and Commons to the Parliament at Westminster. Pitt believed
that the change would strengthen the empire and help Ireland as well, but it was brought to
pass by means of lavish bribery, and sorely against the wish of the Irish patriots. Furthermore,
the determination of Pitt to commend the act to Ireland by removing the political disabilities
which barred Catholics from membership in Parliament was thwarted by the stiff-necked George
III., who had got it into his head that such a concession would do violence to the Protestantism
of his coronation oath. Pitt resigned in disgust, and Catholic emancipation had to await until
England had finished Napoleon's European business and could turn her hand to the troubles nearer
home. It was finally carried, in 1829, by Wellington and Peel, the reform being fairly forced
upon them by the tremendous agitation in its behalf by the eloquent Daniel O'Connell and his
comrades of the Catholic Association. To save the nation from civil war the government yielded
with scant grace, and O'Connell and his "tail" of Irish Catholics came into Parliament to form
a new and perplexing element in all subsequent political calculations.

From his vantage-ground as a member of Parliament O'Connell led a fresh agitation for the "Repeal,"
meaning the repeal of the Act of Union which had destroyed the Dublin Parliament. His oratory,
which in its power over vast multitudes of his emotional countrymen has never been surpassed,
made him the idol of his party. To boisterous congregations of tens of thousands he declaimed
his bitter harangues on Saxon injustice to the Celt. But when the people had been brought to
fever heat the agitation failed because the orator proved to be a voice and nothing more. He
yielded meekly to the proclamation of the government forbidding further meetings, and his followers
forsook him when they saw that he would not cross the Rubicon and take arms after words had
failed. The society called "Young Ireland," formed about 1840, took up the agitation for Irish
nationality, and carried it to greater lengths than O'Connell had dared. Its fiery young leaders,
Smith O'Brien, Meagher, and Mitchel, preached sedition with voice and newspaper press, and
in 1848, only by the vigorous exertion of physical force was open rebellion averted. The principal
men of the Young Ireland party were seized and condemned to death for high treason, though
they ultimately got off with transportation to Australia, whence most of them eventually found
their way to America, whither thousands of their countrymen had emigrated since the famine
year of 1846.

The famine marks a turning-point in the history of the relations of England and Ireland. As
has been narrated in another place, it was the dearth of food in Ireland which forced the government
of Sir Robert Peel to do what the Cobdenites had been demanding for ten years, and repeal the
Corn Laws. The twelfth satire opens with a thanksgiving for the escape of a friend, Catullus, from a
great storm at sea, and ends with a denunciation of legacy hunters, the connecting link between
these somewhat remote themes being that Juvenal, at any rate, is disinterested in his joy at his friend's
escape.

The thirteenth and fourteenth satires deal with more abstract themes, the pangs of the guilty conscience
and the importance of parental example. In the first, Juvenal consoles his friend, Calvinus, who
has been defrauded of a sum of money. The loss, he says, is small, and, after all, honesty
is rare nowadays.

Men have so little care for the gods that they shrink from no perjury. Besides, what is such loss
compared with the many worse crimes that darken life. Why thirst for revenge? It is the doctrine
of the common herd. Philosophy teaches otherwise. The torment of conscience will be a worse
penalty than any you can inflict, and at last justice will claim its own. In the next satire,
to emphasize the value of parental example, the poet illustrates his point from the vice of
avarice, and finally, forgetting his original theme, lashes the avaricious man in words such
as would never suggest that the question of parental example had been raised at all. It is noteworthy
that throughout these two satires the poet draws his illustrations from the themes of the schools
rather than from the scenes of contemporary life.

In the fifteenth satire, however, he returns to depict and discuss actual occurrences, but in
how altered and strange a manner. His theme is a case of cannibalism in Egypt,[720] the result
of a collision between religious fanatics of neighbouring townships. The aged poet spurs himself
into one last fury against the hated Oriental, regardless of the fact that the denunciation
of cannibalism to a civilized audience must necessarily be insipid. Last comes a fragment expatiating
bitterly on the shameful advantages of a military career. The unhappy civilian assaulted by a
soldier cannot get redress, for the case must be heard in camp before a bench of soldiers. The
soldier, on the other hand, can get summary settlement of all his disputes, and alone of Romans
is exempt from the patria potestas, can control his earnings and bequeath them to whom he
will. At this point the satire breaks off abruptly, and we have no means of judging the extent
of the loss. It is a striking reversion to his earlier manner. Once more the satire takes the form
of a series of sketches from actual life.

Both of these satires, notably the fifteenth, show a marked falling off alike in style and
matter. Both, in fact, have been branded as spurious, the latter from times as early as those
of the scholia. But there is no real ground for such a suspicion. Both satires have all the characteristics
of Juvenal, excepting only the vigour and brilliance of his earlier days. No poet's powers
are proof against the advance of old age, and there is no vein of poetry more exhausting or more
easily exhausted than satire. And, as has already been remarked, there are signs of a falling
away before these satires are reached.

Even the famous tenth satire, for all its indisputable greatness, does not demand or reveal, such
special gifts of style and observation as the first and third. It is less in touch with actual
life: it is a theme from the schools, and the illustrations, effective as they are, are as trite
as the theme itself. Were it his only work, the tenth satire would give Juvenal high rank
among Roman poets: it will always, thanks to the brilliance of its rhetoric and the wide applicability
of its moral, be his most popular work: it is not his highest achievement.

It will have been obvious from this brief survey that the themes chosen by Juvenal are for the
most part of a commonplace nature. It could hardly be otherwise. Satire, to be effective, must
choose obvious themes. But in some respects the treatment of them is surprisingly commonplace.
There is little freshness or originality about Juvenal's way of thinking. His morality is neither
satisfying nor profound. His ideal is the old narrow Roman republican ideal of a chaste, vigorous,
and unluxurious life, wherein publicity is for man alone, while woman is confined to the cares
of the family and the household; the ideal of a society wholly Italian and free-born, untainted
by the importations of Greece and Asia; of a state stern and exclusive, though just and merciful,
sparing the subject and beating down the proud. The nobility of this ideal is not to be denied,
but it is inadequate because it is wholly unpractical. There is no denying that the emancipation
of women had led to gross evils, some of them imperilling the very
existence of the State; nor can it be doubted that much of the Greek
influence had been wholly for the bad, and that in many cases the
introduction of the cults of the East served merely to cloak debauchery.

The rich freedman, also, for whom Juvenal reserves his bitterest shafts, was often of vicious
and degraded character and had risen to power by repulsive means. But there is another side
to the picture, the existence of which Juvenal sometimes, by his vehemence, seems to deny.
The freedman class supplied some of the most valuable of civil servants, and many must have been
worthy of their emancipation and of their rise to power.[721] There was a higher Hellenism, which
Juvenal ignored. The intellectual movements of the Empire still found their chief source in
Greece, and the great Sophistic movement was already setting in, as a result of which Greek literature
was to revive and the Greek language to supersede the Latin as the chief vehicle of literary expression
even at Rome itself. The greater freedom accorded to women had its compensations; in spite of Juvenal,
woman does not become worse or less attractive because she is cultured and well educated, and
if there was much dissipation and debauchery in the high society of his day, even high society contained
many noble women of fine intellect and pure character. The spread of Roman citizenship and
the breaking down of the old exclusive tradition were potent factors for good in the history of
civilization. It may be urged in Juvenal's defence that satire must necessarily deal with the darker
side of life, that his silence as to the better and more hopeful elements in society does not
mean that he ignored them, and that it is absurd to attack a satirist because he is not a
scientific social historian. All this is true; but it is possible to have plenty of material
for the bitterest satire and to indict gross and rampant vice without
leaving the impression that the life of the day has no redeeming elements,
without generalizing extravagantly from the vices of one section of
society, even though that section be large and influential.

The weakness of Juvenal is that he is too retrospective, both in his praise and in his blame.
He dare not satirize the living, but will attack the dead. But it would be wrong to assume that
in the dead he always attacks types of the living. There is always the impression that he is in
reality attacking the first century rather than the second, the reigns of Nero and Domitian
rather than the society governed by Trajan and Hadrian. He had lived through a night of terror
and would not recognize the signs of a new dawn. Directing his attention too exclusively on
Rome itself and on the past, he forgets the larger world and the future hope. It is to the impossible
Rome of the past that he turns his eyes for inspiration. Hence comes his hatred, often merely
racial, for Greek and Asiatic importations,[722] hence his dislike and contempt for the new
woman. Moreover, he had lived on the fringe of high society and not in it; he had drunk in
the bitterness of the client's life, and had lived in the enveloping atmosphere of scandal
that always surrounds society for those who are excluded from it. A man of an acrid and jealous
temperament, easily angered and not readily appeased, he yields too lightly and indiscriminately
to that indignation, which, he tells us, is the fountain-head of all he writes. Satire should
be something more than a wild torrent sweeping away obstacles great and small with one equal violence;
it should have its laughing shallows and its placid deeps. But Juvenal's laughter rings harsh and
wild, and wounds as deeply as his invective; he drives continually before the fierce gale of
his spirit, and there are no calm havens where he may rest and contemplate the ideal that so much
denunciation implies. He knows no gradations: all failings suffer beneath the same remorseless
lash. The consul Lateranus has a taste for driving: bad taste, perhaps, yet hardly criminal.
But Juvenal thunders at him as though he were guilty of high treason (viii. 146):

praeter maiorum cineres atque ossa volucri carpento rapitur pinguis Lateranus, et ipse, ipse
rotam adstringit sufflamine mulio consul, nocte quidem, sed Luna videt, sed sidera testes intendunt
oculos. finitum tempus honoris cum fuerit, clara Lateranus luce flagellum sumet et occursum
numquam trepidabit amici iam senis.

See! by his great progenitor's remains Fat Lateranus sweeps, with loosened reins. Good Consul! he no
pride of office feels, But stoops, himself, to clog his headlong wheels. 'But this is all by
night,' the hero cries, Yet the moon sees! yet the stars stretch their eyes Pull on your shame!--A
few short moments wait, And Damasippus quits the pomp of state: Then, proud the experienced driver
to display, He mounts the chariot in the face of day, Whirls, with bold front, his grave associate
by, And jerks his whip, to catch the senior's eye. GIFFORD.

Elsewhere (i. 55-62) the 'horsy' youth is spoken of as worse than the husband who connives
at his wife's dishonour and pockets the reward of her shame. Among the monstrous women of
the sixth satire we come with a shock of surprise upon the learned lady (434):

illa tamen gravior, quae cum discumbere coepit laudat Vergilium, periturae ignoscit Elissae, committit
vates et comparat, inde Maronem atque alia parte in trutina suspendit Homerum.

But of all plagues the greatest is untold; The book-learned wife, in Greek and Latin bold; The critic
dame, who at her table sits, Homer and Virgil quotes and weighs their wits, And pities Dido's
agonizing fits. DRYDEN.

She figures strangely among the poisoners and adulteresses. Juvenal is misogynist by temperament as well
as by conviction. Nero is a matricide like Orestes, but--

in scaena numquam cantavit Orestes, Troica non scripsit. quid enim Verginius armis debuit ulcisci
magis aut cum Vindice Galba, quod Nero tam saeva crudaque tyrannide fecit? (viii. 220).

Besides, Orestes in his wildest mood Sung on no public stage, no Troics wrote.-- This topped
his frantic crimes! This roused mankind! For what could Galba, what Virginius find, In the dire
annals of that bloody reign, Which called for vengeance in a louder strain? GIFFORD.

It is almost a crime to be a foreigner. The Greek is a liar, a base flatterer, a monster of lust,
a traitor, a murderer.[723] The Jew is the sordid victim of a narrow and degrading superstition.[724]
The Oriental is the defilement of Rome; worst of all are the Egyptians;[725] they even eat
each other. The freedman, the nouveau riche, the parvenu[726] are hated with all a Roman's
hatred. The old patriotism of the city state is not yet merged in the wider imperialism. It
is bitter to hear one of alien blood say 'Civis Romanus sum'.

This strange violence and lack of proportion are due in part to the poet's rhetorical training,
which had warped still further a naturally biased temperament. He had been taught and loved
to use the language of hyperbole. And he had lived through the principate of Domitian; it was
that above all else which made him cry difficile est saturam non scribere. To this same tendency
to exaggeration may be in part attributed the extreme grossness of so much of his work. It
is true that vices flaunted themselves before his eyes that it would be hard to satirize without
indecency. There is excuse to some extent for the second, sixth, and ninth satires. But even there
Juvenal oversteps the mark and is often guilty of coarseness for coarseness' sake. It is easy
to plead the custom of the age,[727] but it is doubtful whether such pleading affords any real
palliation for a writer who sets out to be a moralist. It is easy in an access of admiration
to say that Juvenal is never prurient: but it is hard to be genuinely convinced that such a statement
is true, or that Juvenal's coarseness is never more than mere plain speaking.[728]

For not a few readers, this tenseness of language, this violence of judgement, and this occasional
unclean handling of the unclean, make Juvenal an exhausting and a
depressing poet to read in any large quantity at a time.

Worse still, they lead the reader at times to harbour doubts as to the genuineness of Juvenal's
indignation. Such doubts are not in reality justifiable. Juvenal sometimes goads himself into
inappropriate frenzies and sometimes betrays a suspiciously close acquaintance with the most
disgusting details of the worst vices of the age. But though he had something of the unreality of
the rhetorician, and though his character may, perhaps, not have been free from serious blemish,
he is never a hypocrite; nor, though he paints exclusively the darkest side of society, is there
the least reason to accuse him of culpable misrepresentation of actual facts. He has selected
the material most suited to his peculiar genius: we may complain
of his principle of selection, and of his tendency to generalize.

There our criticism must end.

These defects are largely the defects of his qualities and may be readily forgiven. We have
Pliny the younger and the inscriptions to modify his sombre picture. When all is said, Juvenal
had a matchless field for satire and matchless gifts, against which his defects will not weigh
in the balance for a moment. His unrivalled capacity for declamation, for mordant epigram and
scathing wit, more than compensate for his often ill-balanced ferocity; the extraordinary vividness
of his pictures of the life of Rome makes up for lack of perspective and proportion, the richness
and variety of his imagination for its too frequent superficiality,
the vigour and trenchancy of his blows for the absence of the rapier
thrust, the fervour of his teaching for its lack of breadth and depth.

These qualities make him the greatest of the satirists of Rome, if not of the world.

It is, perhaps, his vividness that makes the most immediate impression. It would be hard to find in
any literature a writer with such a power to make the scenes described live before his readers.
The salient features of a scene or character are seized at once.[729] There is no irrelevant
detail; the picture may be crowded, but it is never obscure; if there is a fault it is that
the colouring is sometimes too crude and glaring to please. But before such word-painting as
the description of Domitian's privy council criticism is dumb:

nec melior vultu quamvis ignobilis ibat Rubrius, offensae veteris reus atque tacendae. * * * *
* Montani quoque venter adest abdomine tardus, et matutino sudans Crispinua amomo quantum vix
redolent duo funera, saevior illo Pompeius tenui iugulos aperire susurro, et qui vulturibus
servabat viscera Dacis Fuscus marmorea meditatus proelia villa, et cum mortifero prudens Veiento
Catullo, qui numquam visae flagrabat amore puellae, grande et conspicuum nostro quoque tempore
monstrum, caecus adulator, dirusque a ponte satelles dignus Aricinos qui mendicaret ad axes blandaque
devexae iactaret basia raedae (iv. 104).

Rubrius, though not, like these, of noble race, Followed with equal
terror in his face; * * * * * Montanus' belly next, and next appeared
The legs on which that monstrous pile was reared.

Crispinus followed, daubed with more perfume, Thus early! than two funerals consume. Then bloodier
Pompey, practised to betray, And hesitate the noblest lives away. Then Fuscus, who in studious
pomp at home, Planned future triumphs for the arms of Rome. Blind to the event! those arms a
different fate, Inglorious wounds and Dacian vultures wait. Last, sly Veiento with Catullus
came, Deadly Catullus, who at beauty's name Took fire, although unseen:
a wretch, whose crimes Struck with amaze even those prodigious times.

A base, blind parasite, a murderous lord, From the bridge-end raised to the council-board,
Yet fitter still to dog the traveller's heels, And whine for alms to the descending wheels. GIFFORD.

Figure
after figure they live before us, till the procession culminates with the crowning horror of the
blind delator, L. Valerius Catullus Messalinus. Equally vivid is Juvenal's description of places.
172).

Some distant parts of Italy are known, Where none but only dead men
wear a gown, On theatres of turf, in homely state, Old plays they
act, old feasts they celebrate; * * * * * The mimic yearly gives the
same delights; And in the mother's arms the clownish infant frights.

Their habits (undistinguished by degrees) Are plain alike; the same simplicity Both on the
stage and in the pit you see. In his white cloak the magistrate appears; The country bumpkin
the same livery wears. DRYDEN.

There is the poor gentleman's garret high on the topmost story of some tottering insula, close
beneath the tiles, where the doves nest:

lectus erat Codro Procula minor, urceoli sex ornamentum abaci nec non et parvulus infra cantharus,
et recubans sub eodem marmore Chiro iamque vetus graecos servabat cista libellos, et divina
opici rodebant carmina mures (iii. 203).

Codrus had but one bed, so short to boot, That his short wife's short legs go dangling out His
cupboard's head six earthen pitchers graced, Beneath them was his trusty tankard placed; And to
support this noble plate, there lay A bending Chiron cast from honest clay; His few Greek books a
rotten chest contained, Whose covers much of mouldiness complained; Where mice and rats devoured
poetic bread, And on heroic verse luxuriously were fed.

DRYDEN.

There is the hurrying throng of the streets of Rome with all its dangers and discomforts:

nobis properantibus opstat unda prior, magno populus premit agmine lumbos qui sequitur; ferit
hic cubito, ferit assere duro alter, at hic tignum capiti incutit, ille metretam. pinguia crura
luto, planta mox undique magna calcor et in digito clavus mihi militis haeret. nonne vides quanto celebretur
sportula fumo? centum convivae, sequitur sua quemque culina. Corbulo vix ferret tot vasa ingentia,
tot res inpositas capiti, quas recto vertice portat servulus infelix et cursu ventilat ignem.
scinduntur tunicae sartae modo, longa coruscat serraco veniente abies,
atque altera pinum plaustra vehunt, nutant alte populoque minantur
(iii.

243).

The press before him stops the client's pace; The crowd that follows crush his panting sides,
And trip his heels; he walks not but he rides. One elbows him, one jostles in the shoal, A rafter
breaks his head or chairman's pole; Stockinged with loads of fat town dirt he goes, And some
rogue-soldier with his hob-nailed shoes Indents his legs behind in bloody rows. See, with what smoke
our doles we celebrate! A hundred guests invited walk in state; A hundred hungry slaves with their
Dutch-kitchens wait: Huge pans the wretches on their heads must bear, Which scarce gigantic Corbulo
could rear; Yet they must walk upright beneath the load, Nay run, and running blow the sparkling
flames abroad, Their coats from botching newly brought are torn. Unwieldy timber-trees in waggons
borne, Stretched at their length, beyond their carriage lie, That nod and threaten ruin from
on high. DRYDEN.

Even in the later satires, where with the advance of age this pictorial gift begins to fail him
and he tends to rely rather on brilliant rhetorical treatment of philosophical commonplaces, there
are still flashes of the old power. The well-known description of the fall of Sejanus in the
tenth satire is in his best manner, while even the humbler picture of the rustic family of
primitive Rome in the fourteenth satire shows the same firmness of touch, the same eye for vivid
and direct representation:

saturabat glaebula talis patrem ipsum turbamque casae, qua feta iacebat
uxor et infantes ludebant quattuor, unus vernula, tres domini, sed
magnis fratribus horum a scrobe vel sulco redeuntibus altera cena
amplior et grandes fumabant pultibus ollae (166).

For then the little glebe, improved with care, Largely supplied with vegetable fare, The good
old man, the wife in childbed laid, And four hale boys, that round the cottage played, Three free-born,
one a slave: while, on the board, Huge porringers, with wholesome pottage stored, Smoked for
their elder brothers, who were now, Hungry and tired, expected from the plough. GIFFORD.

His handling of the essential weapons of satire, scathing epigram,
and impetuous rhetoric, contribute equally to his success. He has
the capacity of branding a character with eternal shame in a few terse
trenchant lines. 76);

A cook, a conjurer, a rhetorician, A painter,
pedant, a geometrician, A dancer on the ropes and a physician; All
things the hungry Greek exactly knows, And bid him go to heaven, to
heaven he goes. DRYDEN.

or the summary of Domitian's reign with which
he dates the story of the gigantic turbot?--

cum iam semianimum laceraret
Flavius orbem ultimus et calvo serviret Roma Neroni (iv. 37);

When
the last Flavius, drunk with fury, tore The prostrate world, which
bled at every pore, And Rome beheld, in body as in mind, A bald-pate
Nero rise to curse mankind. GIFFORD.

or the curse upon the legacy-hunter
Pacuvius?--

vivat Pacuvius quaeso vel Nestora totum, possideat quantum
rapuit Nero, montibus aurum exaequet, nec amet quemquam nec ametur
ab ullo (xii. 128).

Health to the man! and may he thus get more Than
Nero plundered! pile his shining store High, mountain high: in years
a Nestor prove, And, loving none, ne'er know another's love! The second was the objection of those who complained that whereas English members
could not interfere in the affairs of Ireland, Irish members might come over to the imperial
Parliament and interfere in the affairs of England." The Old Man Eloquent, now backed by an
overwhelming majority, carried the bill triumphantly through the Lower House only to meet defeat
by a majority of ten to one in the Lords, the stronghold of Conservatism, where every progressive
measure of reform has to encounter resistance at the outset. Though the Lords have learned
to yield when the nation reiterates its determined demand for a law, they were spared on this
occasion. Mr. Gladstone did not renew the bill. In March, 1894, he withdrew forever from public
life, which he had adorned so long and so conspicuously, his last words in Parliament taking
the form of an impressive warning against the assertion of authority by the Upper House. In
his last interview with the leader of the Irish Home Rulers he assured them of his belief in
the ultimate triumph of their cause--a cause whose success was mentioned in his prayers.

The Queen offered her aged public servant an earldom on his retirement, but his was not an
ambition to be pleased with such empty rewards. In his beautiful castle of Hawarden, surrounded
by his books and his family, he spent the years which remained to him in a graceful old age.
To the last his mind remained alert and active. He busied himself with the classical and theological
studies which had been the delight of his young manhood, and the relaxation of his active years.
His translations, his controversial pamphlets, his letters on public questions, showed the
refinement and vigor of his remarkable intellect. When he died the English-speaking world paid
a universal tribute of respect to his memory.

In linking these biographies with certain public questions or events, the name of Gladstone
has been connected with the cause of Ireland--a "lost cause," as some may say, because Home
Rule, which was to have been the capstone of his edifice, was rejected by the builders. But
it must not be forgotten that it was Gladstone who swept away the burdensome Irish Church and
improved the land laws, the franchise, and the opportunities of education in Ireland, and made
an English statesman's name beloved in the Emerald Isle for the first time since Charles James
Fox. Nor should his great work for Ireland obscure the grand achievements of the earlier years
when he led the Liberal party through its wonderful program of reform in England; nor should
any prejudice against the friend of Ireland dull our perception to the clear voice which so
often pleaded the cause of ignorance and oppression at home and abroad, and touched the best
that was in the conscience of his countrymen. A good, great, learned, eloquent statesman, William
Ewart Gladstone towers in moral grandeur above his fellows like a mountain peak above the foothills,
and the far-surrounding plain.

QUESTIONS FOR REVIEW

1.  Why has Ireland menaced the peace of England for more than a century? 2.  What events led
up to the organization of the "Young Ireland" Society? 3.  What results had the Irish famine
of 1846? 4.  Describe the Fenian agitations. 5.  Give an account of the early career of Gladstone.
6.  What two important books did he write on church affairs? 7.  What view did he take of the
Anti-Corn Law bill? 8.  How did he clash with Disraeli on the reform movement of 1866? 9. 
To what three grievances of Ireland did he devote himself? 10. Describe the events connected
with the disestablishment of the Irish church. 11. What did he secure to Ireland by the Land
Act of 1870? 12. What other reforms were carried through about the same time? 13. What did
he accomplish by his letters on the "Bulgarian Atrocities?" 14. What difficulties beset his
attempts at reform in Ireland in 1880-85? 15. How did the policy of Gladstone's cabinet toward
the Boers and General Gordon weaken its influence? 16. How did the Irish wing of Parliament
make itself fell under the new Conservative cabinet? 17. Describe Gladstone's Home Rule Bill
of 1886 and its defeat? 18. What new attempt at Home Rule was made in 1893, and with what result
? 19. Sum up the chief services of Gladstone to his countrymen.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

LIFE OF W. E. GLADSTONE.    Justin McCarthy. LIFE OF GLADSTONE.                  G.W.E. Russell.
W ILLIAM EWART GLADSTONE.     James Bryce. A DIARY OF THE HOME RULE PARLIAMENT. Henry W. Lucy.
YOUNG IRELAND.              C. G. Duffy. DANIEL O'CONNELL.           J.A. Hamilton. HISTORY
OF LEGISLATIVE UNION OF GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND.                    T. D. Ingram.

XI

BEACONSFIELD AND THE BRITISH EMPIRE

[BENJAMIN DISRAELI, Earl of Beaconsfield; born, London, December 21, 1804; died, London, April
19, 1881; baptized in the Church of England, 1817; privately educated; studied law in a solicitor's
office, 1821-24; 1825, published his first novel "Vivian Grey"; 1830-31, traveled in Europe
and the Levant; his novel "Contarini Fleming" attracts notice 1832; after defeats becomes Member
of Parliament for Maidstone 1837; marries Mrs. Wyndham Lewis 1839; leads the "Protectionist"
attack on Peel 1846; leader of opposition 1849-52, 1852-58, 1859-66, 1868-74; Chancellor of
Exchequer 1852, 1858-59, 1866-68; Premier 1868, 1874-80.]

The expansion of the English domain by discovery and colonization or by war and conquest has
been one of the distinguishing features of the nineteenth century. The movement may be said
to have begun with the planting of the North American colonies two hundred years before. A
century later the victories of Lord Clive and the administration of Warren Hastings, the empire-builder,
laid a broad foundation for British dominion in India. Before the dawn of the nineteenth century
the voyages of Captain James Cook in the South Pacific had opened new doors to Anglo-Saxon
expansion in Australia, New Zealand, and the neighboring islands. In 1806 England wrested from
the Dutch the sovereignty of Cape Colony at the southern extremity of Africa, the strategic
half- way station on the main traveled sea-road to India and the East. Gibraltar, Malta, and
Cyprus in the Mediterranean, Aden, Singapore, and Hong Kong in the Far Eastern seas were acquired
and fortified in order to protect British commerce. It could be said with truth that the sun
never set upon the flag of England, and that the morning drum-beat of her garrisons saluted
the sun in his daily journey around the world. At the close of the century the foreign possessions
of Great Britain amounted in area to ten million square miles, and in population to three hundred
and fifty million souls.

The problems which have sprung from this vast colonial empire have been among the most serious
which English statesmen have been compelled to face. The colonies in America and Australia
were English in blood, language, and institutions. In South Africa a large proportion of the
inhabitants were Dutch "Boers," transferred without their consent and against their will to
a foreign sovereignty. In India and Burma the English established their authority and maintained
it by force of arms over teeming native populations of another race and religion. How to hold
together an empire so vast and various; how to adapt administrative methods to its novel and
changing needs; how, if possible, to organize the incongruous multitude of dependencies, colonies,
and protected states into some sort of federal empire-- these are among the newer problems
of British statesmanship.

Americans know how imperfectly the ministers of George III. were prepared to deal with such
problems, and how their blundering resulted in the independence of the United States. The lesson
of 1776 has not been forgotten, as the history of England's conciliatory policy toward Canada
and the Australasian commonwealth abundantly testifies. Lord Tennyson's verses, written in
the year of the Queen's jubilee, give expression to the altered relation of the mother-country
toward her colonial offspring:

"Britain fought her sons of yore, Britain failed; and nevermore, Careless of our growing kin,
Shall we sin our fathers' sin; Men that in a narrower day - Unprophetic rulers they- Drove
from out the eagle's nest That young eagle of the West To forage for herself alone; Britons,
hold your own! "Sharers of our glorious past, Brothers, must we part at last? Shall we not
thro' good and ill Cleave to one another still? Britain's myriad voices call, Sons be welded
each and all Into one imperial whole, One with Britain, heart, and soul! One life, one fleet,
one flag, one throne! Britons, hold your own."

Although as yet no statesman has arisen who has been able to frame a plan of federation which
should weld all into "one imperial whole," the idea is abroad, and has occupied many minds.
Perhaps the man whose powerful imagination first grasped the "imperial" idea and began to look
upon Greater Britain as having common interests, and being capable of assuming common responsibilities,
was Lord Beaconsfield, or Benjamin Disraeli--to use the name by which he first came into public
notice. Death hushed his active mind before he could give form and substance to his great concept,
and it was left to others trained in his school to propagate the idea, and just at the century's
close to demonstrate its significance and worth. Yet what he did for England through a long
life spent in conspicuous public service renders it impossible to exclude him from any list
of Ten Great Englishmen of the nineteenth century. Nor is there in the entire group a personality
more interesting than that of the ambitious, determined, witty, eloquent, and amazingly clever
Israelite who raised himself by sheer force of intellect from an object of ridicule and contempt
to the leadership of the hereditary aristocracy, membership in the House of Lords, chief minister
of England, friend of the sovereign, and arbiter of the destinies of nations. On that January
night in 1846, when Sir Robert Peel, as Prime Minister, confessed to the House of Commons his
conversion to the theory of free trade, and his purpose to repeal the Corn Laws, he was answered
by Benjamin Disraeli in a speech which for bitterness of sarcasm, brilliancy of wit, and savagery
of denunciation, has seldom been equaled in parliamentary history. (See Appendix.) He denounced
Peel as "a man who never originates an idea; a watcher of the atmosphere; a man who takes his
observations, and when he finds the wind in a particular quarter turns his sails to suit it.....Such
a man may be a powerful minister, but he is no more a great statesman than the man who gets
up behind a carriage is a great whip!" Such an attack, voicing the feelings of the Tory protectionists,
and coming from Peel's own side of the House, at that critical moment, made the political fortune
of the speaker. From that hour Benjamin Disraeli was looked upon as the hope of the remnant
of the Tory party, which could no longer follow Peel.

Disraeli was in his tenth year of membership in the House of Commons. He was a descendant of
a line of Spanish and Venetian Jews who had sought refuge in England and prospered there. His
father, Isaac Disraeli, had broken with the family traditions, devoting himself to literature
instead of getting gain, and had renounced the faith of his fathers. The son, Benjamin, was
baptized into the Church of England at the age of thirteen, educated among his father's books
and in private schools, and at seventeen articled to a firm of London solicitors. Instead of
practicing law the young clerk practiced authorship so cleverly as to make a sensation in his
twenty-first year with a novel "Vivian Grey" (1826), the first of eleven ("Young Duke," 1831;
"Contarini Fleming," 1832; "Alroy," 1833; "Henrietta Temple," 1836; "Venetia," 1837; "Coningsby,"
1844; "Sybil," 1845; "Tancred," 1847; "Lothair," 1870; "Endymion," 1880), besides several long
poems, burlesques, and political pamphlets, and "The Life of Lord George Bentinck." "Vivian
Grey" was very smartly done, and fashionable London was captivated by its clever satire and
witty dialogue. On the profits of his earlier books he traveled extensively in Europe and the
Levant, where his Oriental imagination was strongly stimulated. Before he was thirty he had
won his way into the most exclusive circles of London society, the vogue of his novels and
the brilliancy of his conversational powers commending him to the "smart set" of the metropolis.
His determination "to be somebody" in spite of the disadvantages of blood, birth, and lack
of money led him to ridiculous affectations--yet, however ridiculed at the time, they served
his turn, and brought him the notice that he craved. N. P. Willis, who saw the much-talked-about
young Israelitish novelist at Lady Blessington's, wrote of the strange vision: "He was sitting
in a window looking on Hyde Park, the last rays of sunlight reflected from the gorgeous gold
flowers of a splendidly embroidered waistcoat. Patent leather pumps, a white stick with a black
cord and tassel, and a quantity of chains about his neck and pockets served to make him a conspicuous
object. He has one of the most remarkable faces I ever saw. He is lividly pale, and but for
the energy of his actions and the strength of his lungs, would seem to be a victim of consumption.
His eye is black as Erebus, and has the most mocking, lying-in-wait sort of expression conceivable.
His mouth is alive with a kind of working and impatient nervousness; and when he has burst
forth as he does constantly with a particularly successful cataract of expression, it assumes
a curl of triumphant scorn that would be worthy of Mephistopheles. His hair is as extraordinary
as his taste in waistcoats. A thick, heavy mass of jet-black ringlets falls on his left cheek
almost to his collarless stock, which on the right temple is parted and put away with the smooth
carefulness of a girl." A lady who met him at dinner described him as appareled in a black
velvet coat lined with satin, purple trousers with a gold stripe on the outside seam, a scarlet
waistcoat, lace wristbands to his finger tips, white gloves with flashy rings worn outside.
Add to these the flowing black ringlets, and do not wonder that his hostess told the young
man that he was making a fool of himself. Froude says he dressed in this fantastic guise to
give the impression of folly so that his sudden displays of brilliancy might have the more
striking effect coming from such an unlikely source.

Self-esteem was abounding in the young Hebrew, and he did not hesitate to compare himself with
others to his own advantage. At twenty-nine he wrote his sister after an evening in the gallery
of the House of Commons, "Heard Macaulay's best speech.....but between ourselves I could floor
them all!" Egotism it doubtless was, but it sprang from no empty confidence in himself. The
time was not distant when he was the acknowledged master of the House which looked so tempting
from the galleries. He had offered himself as a Tory with Radical ideas--a combination as unusual
as his style of apparel--to the electors of High Wycombe in June, 1832, but was beaten, as
he was again in the autumn. It was said that in one of his early candidacies he replied to
an elector, who had asked him on what he intended to stand, in the sententious phrase "on my
head!" In 1834 he stood for Taunton, only to be defeated a third time. O'Connell, who had helped
him in his first campaign, was mortally offended by Disraeli's allusion to his "bloody hand"
in the Taunton canvass. The Irish orator, in a bitter rejoinder at Dublin, denounced Disraeli
as a Jewish traitor, "the heir at law of the blasphemous thief that died upon the cross."

After many fruitless struggles the coveted seat was won, and in 1837 Benjamin Disraeli entered
the House of Commons for Maidstone, his colleague being Wyndham Lewis, the friend whose good
offices had gained him the nomination. Not long after the death of Mr. Lewis, in 1838, Mr.
Disraeli married his lively widow, a woman to whose devotion not less than to her ample fortune
he owed a debt of gratitude which he never failed to acknowledge.

Welcomed to the ranks of the Tory opposition by Sir Robert Peel, the ambitious recruit plunged
at once into oratory--only to have his maiden effort drowned by the jeers of his hostile hearers,
led by O'Connell's "tail" of Irish members. They mocked at his appeals for a hearing, and though
the Tories cheered his pluck, he could not make it go. "At last, losing his temper, which until
now he had preserved in a wonderful manner, he paused in the midst of a sentence, and looking
the Liberals indignantly in the face, raised his hands and opening his mouth as widely as its
dimensions would admit, said, in a remarkably loud and almost terrific tone, 'I have begun,
several times, many things, and I have often succeeded at last; aye, sir, and though I sit
down now, the time will come when you will hear me.'"

Nor did he ever again fail to get a hearing. He spoke often and to the point, enlivening his
solid argument with touches of wit and gleams of imagination which light up the dreary pages
of the parliamentary journals. At the first he was the steady supporter of Peel, but this clever
man of ideals, imagination, and insight, could have little in common with that prosy, plodding
man of business, whose stronghold was in the esteem of the plodding middle classes. When the
Tories came into power in 1841, with Peel as Prime Minister, he found no place in his government
for the supporter whose talent all parties had now begun to recognize. The slight bred coolness,
and as Peel began to veer towards free trade principles, Disraeli, gathering a few ardent Tory
protectionists about him, made himself a thorn in the premier's side. His caustic sayings about
Peel's acceptance of the principles of the opposition were the talk of the clubs. "The right
honorable gentleman," he said, "caught the Whigs bathing and he walked away with their clothes."
He characterized the premier's genius as "sublime mediocrity," amid shouts of applause, and
his government, raised to office by protectionist votes, yet steadily promoting free trade
measures, he branded as "organized hypocrisy." His hostility to the repeal of the Corn Laws
was based not so much upon economic argument superior to that of Cobden, as upon his fundamental
belief that the greatness of the English nation in all past centuries had been derived from
the wise rule of the aristocratic, land-owning class, and a fond belief that the retention
of the tariff upon imported agricultural produce would support this ancient pillar of the constitution.
Furthermore, his contention that England's adoption of free trade would be met by rival nations
with high tariffs against imports of English goods has been borne out by the facts of subsequent
history, against the confident assertion of Cobden and the Manchester school of economists
that the world would soon follow the lead of England in throwing down all artificial barriers
to the exchange of commodities. Peel carried his bill, as we have seen, but the protectionists
wreaked their vengeance by overthrowing his government in the moment of victory.

From the hour of his defeat, in 1846, Sir Robert Peel was no longer a party chief. The Tory
aristocracy who had lent their aid to the fatal coalition against him were led at first by
Lord George Bentinck, but the real director of the organization was Disraeli. In 1849 he succeeded
to the formal leadership of the Conservative opposition in the House of Commons, and in 1852,
when the Russell ministry went out, he took office under Lord Derby as Chancellor of the Exchequer,
and leader of the House of Commons. The Free Trade League bristled up at this resurgence of
the protectionist champions, but Disraeli was too wise to invite a renewal of that contest
which the voice of the nation had settled, and the subject was left to lapse into innocuous
desuetude for half a century. Representing but a minority in Parliament, the ministry could
maintain itself but a few months. December, 1852, found the Whigs again in power, where they
remained until 1859, Disraeli using his talents the while to build up and consolidate the Tory
opposition and to disintegrate the discordant elements, Free Trade, Liberal, Peelite, and Radical,
who rallied under the government banner.

In 1858-59 the Derby-Disraeli ministry enjoyed a second brief lease of office, and after the
long Whig administration of Palmerston and Russell (1859-66), they succeeded to the direction
of affairs for the third time.

Out of office Disraeli continued to entertain Parliament with the audacious, brilliant, and
often masterly speeches which he alone of his generation could deliver, and his short-lived
experiences as the director and spokesman of the government policy equally evidenced his administrative
ability, his control of his followers, and his knowledge of the spirit and temper of the Commons
and the nation.

When Benjamin Disraeli, the young novelist, was presented to Lord Melbourne at a social gathering
in the early '3O's his lordship had graciously asked how he could serve him. To which the flippant
young man had replied that he would like to be Prime Minister. In February, 1868, the resignation
of Lord Derby raised Mr. Disraeli to the height of his youthful ambition. He was premier until
December, 1868, when his great rival and former party-associate, Gladstone, wrested the honor
from his grasp.

During the third Derby-Disraeli ministry, the Reform Bill of 1867 was passed. Thirty-five years
before the Grey-Russell Whigs had disfranchised the rotten boroughs and admitted the middle
class people of the towns to citizenship and parliamentary representation. As years passed
the demand increased for a further extension of the electoral franchise. The Chartists of 1848
demanded universal suffrage and were sternly repressed. After nearly a score of years the Gladstonian
Liberals were prepared to gratify this demand in considerable measure, but before they could
fully develop their policy, they were out and the Conservatives were in. It was at this juncture
that Disraeli took "the leap in the dark," carrying, in 1867, an act "which, in its inevitable
developments must give the franchise to every householder in the United Kingdom; and he gained
for his party the credit, if credit it was, of having passed a more completely democratic measure
than the most radical responsible statesman had yet dared to propose." His accession to the
premiership evoked fresh testimony to his popularity. Mr. Froude makes no concealment of the
attacks which were made upon him by open foes, or the disguised contempt of members of the
aristocracy whose pride of birth had nevertheless allowed them to avail themselves of his talent
for leadership. "Yet," says the same biographer, "when he went down to Parliament for the first
time in his new capacity, he was wildly cheered by the crowds in Palace Yard. The shouts were
echoed along Westminster Hall and through the lobbies, and were taken up again warmly and heartily
in the House itself, which had been the scene of so many conflicts-the same House in which
he had been hooted down when he first arose to speak."

When Gladstone's first administration (1868-74) had exhausted its volcanic energies, Disraeli
for a second time became the chief minister of the Queen, this time not to finish out a weakened
term, but with a clear majority at his back, and with the confidence of the Crown and the nation.
Internal reforms had gone far enough for the time, and foreign affairs for which Mr. Gladstone
had shown less aptitude needed attention from some one who could reproduce the spirit of a
Canning, a Palmerston, or a John Bull.

The statesmen who had directed the affairs of the nation for the past thirty years, had seen
little to be thankful for in the extensive colonial possessions of England. They had for the
most part been "Little Englanders," to use a term of recent coinage, and while using the military
power of the government to put down armed resistance to English sovereignty and to defend the
integrity of the boundaries of the distant colonies, had done little else to hold the fabric
together. Some of the most eminent among them were of the opinion that the possession of the
colonies was an element of weakness. In the pursuance of such theories the English commonwealths
of British America, Australia, and New Zealand were allowed to develop forms of local government
but slightly removed from independence. Their constitutions, approved by English Liberal cabinets,
allowed them to impose duties against the mother country, and exempted them from most of the
burdens of taxation and military service which are the natural incidents of dependence.

Disraeli's view of all this was vigorously expressed in 1872. "Gentlemen, if you look to the
history of this country since the advent of Liberalism, forty years ago, you will find that
there has been no effort so continuous, so subtle, supported by so much energy, and carried
on with so much ability and acumen, as the attempts of Liberalism to effect the disintegration
of the empire of England. And, gentlemen, of all its efforts, this is the one which has been
the nearest to success.....Not that I, for one, object to self-government.....But self-government
when it was conceded ought to have been conceded as part of a great policy of imperial consolidation.
It ought to have been accompanied with an imperial tariff, by securities for the people of
England for the enjoyment of the unappropriated lands which belonged to the sovereign as their
trustee, and by a military code which should have precisely defined the means and the responsibilities
by which the colonies should be defended, and by which, if necessary, this country should call
for aid from the colonies themselves. It ought further to have been accompanied by some representative
council in the metropolis, which would have brought the colonies into constant and continuous
relations with the home government. All this, however, was omitted because those who advised
that policy looked upon the colonies of England, looked even upon our connection with India
as a burden on this country, viewing everything in a financial aspect, and totally passing
by those moral and political considerations which make nations great." Further on in the same
speech he had declared, "in my opinion no minister in this country will do his duty who neglects
any opportunity of reconstructing as much as possible our colonial empire, and of responding
to those distant sympathies which may become the source of incalculable strength and happiness
to this land." Yet his own ministry either had no such opportunity, or neglected it, and this
far-seeing view of imperial relations was bequeathed unfulfilled for the guidance of those
who were to come after.

Disraeli's six years of government were, however, signalized by a series of exploits which
restored the tarnished prestige of England in the councils of Europe and doubtless served,
however indirectly, to increase the pride of the colonies in the mother country.

When the ship canal was constructed by de Lesseps, connecting the Mediterranean with the Red
Sea and shortening by one-half the route to India, the project had been frowned on by England.
In 1875 the Khedive of Egypt, the largest stockholder in the canal, became hard-pressed for
funds, and a telegram from Disraeli bought the entire block of shares for the English government
for four million pounds. This stroke secured English control of the waterway, and was immensely
popular with the nation. The Prince of Wales was sent with great pomp on a tour of India, and
in 1876 the Queen's title was made more imposing by the addition of the words "Empress of India."
The latter move may be viewed as a counter-stroke against recent advances of the Russians,
whose disposition to raise the Eastern Question was irrepressible. The revolt of certain Christian
states of Turkey in Europe had revived the animosities which had smouldered since the Crimean
War, and while Russia prepared to support the claims of the Christians, Disraeli again ranged
England on the side of the Turk. The Queen-Empress, as if to give personal support to the policy
of her Prime Minister, raised him to the peerage with the title of Earl of Beaconsfield (1876).

The hatreds and intrigues in the Balkan peninsula led to a bloody war between Russia and Turkey. In
early records it is invariably called "la Real," "la Reole," "la Riole," or "la Ryal or Ryole;"
and it is described simply as a "tenement;" I have never found an instance of its being called
a "tower". At the close of the reign of Henry III. it was held by one Thomas Bat, citizen of London,
who demised it to Master Simon of Beauvais, surgeon to Edward I.; this grant was confirmed by
that sovereign by charter in 1277. (Rot. Cart. 5 Edw. I. m. 17.--Placita de Quo Warranto,
p. 461.) This Simon of Beauvais figures in Stow and Pennant as Simon de Beawmes. In 1331 Edward
III. granted "la Real" to his consort Philippa, for the term of her life, that is might be used
as a depository for her wardrobe. (Rot. Pat. 4 Edw. III. 2nd part, m. 15.) By Queen Philippa
it was extensively repaired, if not rebuilt, and the particulars of the works executed there
by her direction, may be seen in the Wardrobe Account of the sixth
year of her reign, preserved in the Cottonian MS. Galba E iii. fo.

177, et seq.; this account is erroneously attributed in the catalogue to Eleanor, consort of
Edward I. One Maria de Beauvais, probably a descendant of Master Simon, received compensation
for quitting a tenement which she held at the time Philippa's operations commenced. In 1365 Edward
III. granted to Robert de Corby, in fee, "one tenement in the street of la Ryole, London" to hold
by the accustomed services. Finally, in 1370 Edward gave the "inn (hospitium) with its appurtenances
called le Reole, in the city of London," to the canons of St. Stephen's, Westminster, as of the
yearly value of 20l. (Rot. Pat. 43 Edw. III. m. 24.)

It is sufficiently clear that in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries this place was not
called Tower Royal; nor does there appear to be any ground for supposing it was so named in earlier
times, or, indeed, that it was ever occupied by royalty before it became Philippa's wardrobe.
The question, therefore is narrowed to this point:--what is the significance
of "la Real, Reole, or Riole?"

I should be glad if any of your correspondents would give their opinions on the subject. I may
add, that the building was in the parish of St. Thomas Apostle, not in that of St. Michael Pater
Noster Church, as Stow wrote. (Rot. Pat. 4 Edw. III. 2nd part, m. 38.)

T.H.T

Let me refer Mr. P. Cunningham to "Stow's Survey, p. 27. 92. Thoms' Edition," for a full answer
to his query. The passages are too long to cite, but Mr. C. will find sufficient proof of the
part of a royal residence having once stood in this obscure lane, now almost demolished in the sweeping
city improvements, which threaten in time to leave us hardly a fragment of the London of the old
chronicler.

The Tower was also called the Queen's Wardrobe, and it was there, Froissart tells us, that Joan of
Kent, the mother of Richard II., took refuge during Wat Tyler's rebellion,
when forced to fly from the Tower of London.

The old historian writes that after the defeat of the rebels "pour le premier chemin que le Roy
fit, il vint deuers sa Dame de mère, la Princesse, qui estoit en un chastel de la Riolle (que
l'on dit la Garderobbe la Reyne) et là s'estoit tenue deux jours et deux nuits, moult ébahie;
et avoit bien raison. Quand elle vit le Roy son fils, elle fut toute rejouye, et luy dit, 'Ha
ha beau fils, comment j'ay eu aujourd'huy grand peine et angoisse pour vous.' Dont respondit
le Roy, et dit, 'Certes, Madame, je le say bien. Or vous rejouissez et louez Dieu, car il est heure
de le louer. J'ay aujourd'huy recouvré mon heritage et le royaume d'Angleterre, que j'avoye
perdu.' Ainsi se tint le Roy ce jour delez sa mère." (Froissart, ii 123. Par. 1573.)

In Stow's time this interesting locality had been degraded into stable
for the king's horses, and let out in divers tenements.

E.V.

[We are indebted to J.E., R.T.S., and other correspondents for replies to Mr. Cunningham's Query;
but as their answers contain only general references to works which it is reasonable to suppose
that gentleman must have consulted during the preparation of his Handbook for London we have not
thought it necessary to insert them.]

* * * * *

ANCIENT INSCRIBED DISH.

Mr. Editor,--The subject of inscribed dishes of latten, of which so many varieties have recently
been imported, appears to be regarded with interest by several of your readers. I am indebted
to the Rev. William Drake, of Coventry, for a rubbing from one of
these mysterious inscriptions, upon an "alms-plate" in his possession.

In the centre is represented the Temptation. There are two inscribed circles; on the inner
and broader one appear letters, which have been read,--RAHEWISHNBY. They are several times repeated.
On the exterior circle is the legend On the exterior circle is the legend--ICH. SART. GELUK.
ALZEIT.

This likewise is repeated, so as to fill the entire circle.

I have never before met with these inscriptions in the large number of dishes of this kind which
I have examined. The have been termed alms-dishes, and are used still in parochial collections
in France, as doubtless they have been in England. They were also used in ancient times in the
ceremony of baptism, and they are called baptismal basins, by some foreign writers. This use is
well illustrated by the very curious early Flemish painting in the Antwerp Gallery, representing
the seven sacraments. The acolyte, standing near the font, bears such a dish, and a napkin.
The proper use of these latten dishes was, as I believe, to serve as a laver, carried round at
the close of the banquet in old times, as now at civic festivities. They often bear devices
of a sacred character; but it is probable that they were only occasionally used for any scared purpose,
and are more properly to be regarded as part of the domestic appliances
of former times.

ALBERT WAY.

* * * * *

BARNACLES.

In Brand's Popular Antiquities, vol. iii. pp. 361, 362., there is
an account given of the barnacle, "a well-known kind of shell-fish,
which is found sticking on the bottoms of ships," and with regard
to which the author observes, that "it seems hardly credible in this
enlightened age, that so gross an error in natural history should
so long have prevailed," as that this shell-fish should become changed
into "a species of goose."

The author then quotes Holinshed, Hall, Virgidemiarum, Marston, and Gerard; but he does not make
the slightest reference to Giraldus Cambrensis, who is his Topographia
Hiberniae first gave the account of the barnacle, and of that account
the writers referred to by Brand were manifestly but the copyists.

The passage referring to "the barnacle" will be found in the Topog. Hiber. lib. i. e. xi. I annex
a translation of it, as it may be considered interesting, when compared with the passages quoted
in Brand:--

"There are," says Giraldus, "in this country (Ireland) a great number
of birds called barnacles (Bernacre), and which nature produces in
a manner that is contrary to the laws of nature.

     The birds are not unlike to ducks, but they are somewhat smaller
in size.

They make their first appearance as drops of gum upon the branches
of firs that are immersed in running waters; and then they are next
seen hanging like sea-weed from the wood, becoming encased in shells,
which at last assume in their growth the outward form of birds, and
so hang on by their beaks until they are completely covered with feathers
within their shells, and when they arrive at maturity, they either
drop into the waters, or take their flight at once into the air.

Thus from the juice of this tree, combined with the water, are they generated and receive
their nutriment until they are formed and fledged. I have many times with my own eyes seen
several thousand of minute little bodies of these birds attached to pieces of wood immersed
in the sea, encased in their shells, and already formed.

These then are birds that never lay eggs, and are never hatched from eggs; and the consequence
is, that in some parts of Ireland, and at those seasons of fasting when meat is forbidden, bishops
and other religious persons feed on these birds, because they are not fish, nor to be regarded as
flesh meat. And who can marvel that this should be so? When our first parent was made of mud,
can we be surprised that a bird should be born of a tree?"

The notion of the barnacle being considered a fish is, I am aware, one that still prevails on the
western coast of Ireland; for I remember a friend of mine, who had spent a few weeks in Kerry,
telling me of the astonishment he experienced upon seeing pious Roman Catholics eating barnacles on
Fridays, and being assured that they were nothing else than fishes! My friend added that they
had certainly a most "fish-like flavour," and were, therefore, very nasty birds.

W.B. MACCABE.

* * * * *

DORNE THE BOOKSELLER.

Mr. Editor,--I beg to add my protest to your own, respecting the conclusion drawn by your valuable
correspondent W. as to his competency to his arduous task, which no person could doubt who
knows him. My remarks had reference to the supposed scribe of the catalogue, whose brains, according
to W., were in some degree of confusion at times. His name is still in obscuro, it seems. "Henno
Rusticus" is clear. W., I trust, will accept my apology. I say with Brutus, verbis paulo mutatis--

"By
heaven, I had rather coin my heart, And drop my blood for drachmas,
than to plant In the kind bosom of a friend a thorn, By any indirection."

J.I.

*

* * * *

REV. WM. STEPHENS' SERMONS.

Sir,--Amongst the books wanted in your sixth number is "a Tract or Sermon" of the Rev. Wm. Stephens.
It is a sermon, and one of four, all of which are far above the ordinary run of sermons, and deserving
of a place in every clergyman's library.

They are rarely met with together, though separately they turn up
now and then upon book stalls amongst miscellaneous sermons; it is
a pity they are not better known, and much is every day republished
less deserving of preservation.

The author's widow published her husband's sermons in two volumes;
but, strange to say, these, which are worth all the rest, are not
included in the collection.

The titles of the four sermons are--

"The Personality and Divinity
of the Holy Ghost proved from Scripture, and the Anti-Nicene Fathers."

Preached before the University of Oxford, St. Matthias' Day, 1716-17. Third Edition, 1725.

"The
Catholic Doctrine concerning the Union of the Two Natures in the One Person of Christ stated
and vindicated."

Preached at the visitation of the Bishop of Oxford, 1719.

Second Edition, 1722.

"The Divine Persons One God by an Unity of Nature: or, That Our Saviour is One God with His Father,
by an External Generation from His Substance, asserted from Scripture and the Anti-Nicene Fathers."
Preached before the University of Oxford, 1722. Second Edition, 1723.

"The Several Heterodox Hypotheses, concerning both the Persons and the Attributes of the Godhead,
justly chargeable with more inconsistencies and Absurdities than those which have been groundlessly
imputed to the Catholic system." Preached at the visitation of the Bishop of Exeter, 1724.

I shall be glad to learn from any of your readers whether the author
published any other sermons or tracts which are not included in the
two volumes of his sermons.

WM. DENTON

Shoreditch, Dec. 11. 1849.

* * * * *

ROGER DE COVERLEY.

Sir,--In No. 4 of your "NOTES AND QUERIES" it is asked, if any notice of the tune called Roger
de Coverley is to be met with earlier than 1695, when it was printed by H. Playford in his Dancing
Master? I am happy in being able to inform your correspondent that the tune in question may
be found in a rare little volume in my possession, entitled "The Division-Violin, containing
a Choice Collection of Divisions to a Ground for the Treble-Violin. Being the first Musick of
this kind ever published. London, Printed by J.P. and are sold by John Playford, near the
Temple-Church, 1685, small oblong."

I have every reason to believe, from considerable researches, that no earlier copy can be found
in print.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

* * * * *

MINOR NOTES.

Omission of the Words DEI GRATIA from the new Florin.

Ruding, in his Annals of the Coinage, iv. 9., furnishes a precedent for the omission of the words
DEI GRATIA from the coinage, in the case of the Irish half-pence and farthings coined at the
Tower in 1736-7. And he supplies, also, a precedent for the dissatisfaction with which their omission
from the new florin has been received, in the shape of two epigrams written at that time, for
which he is indebted (as what writer upon any point of English literature and history is not)
to Sylvanus Urban. The first (from the Gentlemen's Magazine for June, 1837) is as follows:--

"No Christian kings that I can find, However match'd or odd, Excepting ours have ever coin'd
Without the grace of God.

"By this acknowledgment they show The mighty King of Kings, As him from whom their riches flow,
From whom their grandeur springs.

"Come, then, Urania, aid my pen, The latent cause assign,-- All other kings are mortal men,
But GEORGE, 'tis plain, 's divine."

The next month produced this address:--

To the Author of the Epigram on the new Irish Halfpence.

"While you behold th' imperfect coin Receiv'd without the grace of God, All honest men with you
must join, And even Britons think it odd.

The grace of God was well left out, And I applaud the politician; For when an evil's done, no
doubt, 'Tis not by God's grace, but permission."

Grace's Card, the
Six of Hearts.

As a note to the communications which have lately
amused your readers, respecting the nine of diamonds, and the curse
of Scotland, allow me to remind you of another card which has a peculiar
name, the origin of which is better ascertained.

At the Revolution
of 1688, one of the family of Grace, of Courtstown in Ireland, raised
and equipped a regiment of foot and a troop of horse, at his own expense,
for the service of King James, whom he further assisted with money
and plate, amounting, it is said, to 14,000l. He was tempted with
splendid promises of royal favour, to join the party of King William.
A written proposal to that effect was sent to him by one of the Duke
of Schomberg's emissaries. Indignant at the insulting proposal, the
Baron of Courtstown seized a card, which was accidentally lying near
him, and wrote upon it this answer: "Go, tell your master, I despise
his offer! Tell him that honour and conscience are dearer to a gentleman
than all the wealth and titles a prince can bestow!" The card happened
to be the "six of hearts," and to this day that card is generally
known by the name of "Grace's card," in the city of Kilkenny.

I derive
these particulars principally from the Memoirs of the Family of Grace,
by Sheffield Grace, Esq. 4to. London, 1823, p. 42.

W.L.

Florins.

The
following extract from the Issue Roll of Easter I Edward III. 1327,
may interest the inquirers into the antiquity of the FLORIN, lately
introduced into our coinage:--

"To Robert de Wodehouse, keeper of
the King's Wardrobe, for the price of 174 florins from Florence, price
each florin as purchased, 39-1/2d. paid to the same keeper by the
hands of John de Houton, his clerk, for one pound and one mark of
gold, to make oblations on the day of the coronation for the Lord
the King:--and in the manner was delivered 104 florins and a mark
of 70s. by the king's command, under the privy seal, which was used
before he received the government of this kingdom,--£28.12.6."

[Greek:
Phi].

John Hopkins, the Psalmist.

Sir,--Little is known of the personal
history of John Hopkins, the coadjutor of Sternhold in the translation
of the Psalms. It is generally agreed that he was a clergyman and
a schoolmaster in Suffolk, but no one has mentioned in what parish
of that county he was beneficed. It is highly probably that the following
notes refer to this person, and if so, the deficiency will have been
supplied by them.

In Tanner's List of the Rectors of Great Waldingfield
in Suffolk, taken from the Institution Book at Norwich, there is this
entry:--

"Reg. xix. 55 12 Aug. 1561 Joh. Chetham, ad praes. Willi
Spring, Arm. Jo. Hopkins. 168. 3 April, 1571. Tho. Cooke, ad praes.
Edw. Colman, B.D."

In the Parish Register of Great Waldingfield is
the following:--

"Buried, 1570. Mr. John Hopkins, 23rd Oct."

D.

*
* * * *

NOTES IN ANSWER TO MINOR QUERIES. Hush, the Dead March wails in the people's ears; The dark
crowd moves, and there are sobs and tears: The black earth yawns; the mortal disappears; Ashes
to ashes, dust to dust. He is gone who seemed so great-- Gone; but nothing can bereave him
Of the force he made his own Being here, and we believe him Something far advanced in state,
And that he wears a truer crown Than any wreath that man can weave him. Speak no more of his
renown, Lay your earthly fancies down, And in the vast cathedral leave him, God accept him,
Christ receive him!

II

GEORGE CANNING

POLITICAL POETRY

["The Needy Knife-Grinder," which follows, was one of the most notable contributions which
appeared in "The Anti-Jacobin." It is scarcely necessary to point out its satire upon the humanitarian
sympathies of those Englishmen who had been carried away by the ideas of the French Revolution.

[The following extract from a speech on Parliamentary Reform affords an excellent example of
his style of eloquence.]

Other nations, excited by the example of the liberty which this country has long possessed,
have attempted to copy our Constitution; and some of them have shot beyond it in the fierceness
of their pursuit. I grudge not to other nations that share of liberty which they may acquire;
in the name of God, let them enjoy it! But let us warn them that they lose not the object of
their desire by the very eagerness with which they attempt to grasp it. Inheritors and conservators
of national freedom, let us, while others are seeking it in restlessness and trouble, be a
steady and shining light to guide their course; not a wandering meteor to bewilder and mislead
them.

Let it not be thought that this is an unfriendly or disheartening counsel to those who are
either struggling under the pressure of harsh government, or exulting in the novelty of sudden
emancipation.

Noble and swelling sentiments! but such as cannot be reduced into practice. Grand ideas! but
which must be qualified and adjusted by a compromise between the aspirings of individuals,
and a due concern for the general tranquility; must be subdued and chastened by reason and
experience before they can be directed to any useful end! A search after abstract perfection
in government may produce in generous minds an enterprise and enthusiasm to be recorded by
the historian and to be celebrated by the poet; but such perfection is not an object of reasonable
pursuit, because it is not one of possible attainment; and never yet did a passionate struggle
after an absolutely unattainable object fail to be productive of misery to an individual, of
madness and confusion to a people. As the inhabitants of those burning climates which lie beneath
a tropical sun sigh for the coolness of the mountain and the grove, so (all history instructs
us) do nations which have basked for a time in the torrid blaze of unmitigated liberty too
often call upon the shades of despotism, even of military despotism, to cover them--a protection
which blights while it shelters; which dwarfs the intellect and stunts the energies of man,
but to which a wearied nation willingly resorts from intolerable heats and from perpetual danger
of convulsion.

Our lot is happily cast in the temperate zone of freedom, the clime best suited to the development
of the moral qualities of the human race, to the cultivation of their faculties, and to the
security as well as the improvement of their virtues; a clime, not exempt, indeed, from variations
of the elements, but variations which purify while they agitate the atmosphere that we breathe.
Let us be sensible of the advantages which it is our happiness to enjoy. Let us guard with
pious gratitude the flame of genuine liberty, that fire from heaven, of which our Constitution
is the holy depository; and let us not, for the chance of rendering it more intense and more
radiant, impair its purity or hazard its extinction.

III

GEORGE STEPHENSON

[The bill for the charter of the Liverpool and Manchester railway was referred to the Committee
of the House of Commons, March 21, 1825. The canal companies had employed able counsel to oppose
it. A month was consumed before the company's engineer, Mr. George Stephenson, was called by
the Committee. The following account of his first day's examination is from his fascinating
biography by Dr. Samuel Smiles.]

On the 25th George Stephenson was called into the witness-box. It was his first appearance
before a committee of the House of Commons, and he well knew what he had to expect. He was
aware that the whole force of the opposition was to be directed against him; and if they could
break down his evidence, the canal monopoly might yet be upheld for a time. Many years afterward,
when looking back at his position on this trying occasion, he said: "When I went to Liverpool
to plan a line from thence to Manchester, I pledged myself to the directors to attain a speed
of ten miles an hour. I said I had no doubt the locomotive might be made to go much faster,
but that we had better be moderate at the beginning. The directors said I was quite right;
for that if, when they went to Parliament, I talked of going at a greater rate than ten miles
an hour, I should put a cross upon the concern. It was not an easy task for me to keep the
engine down to ten miles an hour, but it must be done, and I did my best. I had to place myself
in that most unpleasant of all positions--the witness-box of a parliamentary committee. I was
not long in it before I began to wish for a hole to creep out at! I could not find words to
satisfy either the committee or myself. I was subjected to the cross-examination of eight or
ten barristers, purposely, as far as possible, to bewilder me. Some member of the committee
asked if I was a foreigner, and another hinted that I was mad. But I put up with every rebuff,
and went on with my plans, determined not to be put down."

George Stephenson stood before the committee to prove what the public opinion of that day held
to be impossible. The self-taught mechanic had to demonstrate the practicability of accomplishing
that which the most distinguished engineers of the time regarded as impracticable. Clear though
the subject was to himself, and familiar as he was with the powers of the locomotive, it was
no easy task for him to bring home his convictions, or even to convey his meaning, to the less
informed minds of his hearers. In his strong Northumbrian dialect, he struggled for utterance,
in the face of the sneers, interruptions, and ridicule of the opponents of the measure, and
even of the committees, some of whom shook their heads and whispered doubts as to his sanity
when he energetically avowed that he could make the locomotive go at the rate of twelve miles
an hour! It was so grossly in the teeth of all the experience of honorable members, that the
man "must certainly be laboring under a delusion!"

And yet his large experience of railways and locomotives, as described by himself to the committee,
entitled this "untaught, inarticulate genius," as he has been described, to speak with confidence
on the subject. Beginning with his experience as a brakesman at Killingworth in 1803, he went
on to state that he was appointed to take the entire charge of the steam engines in 1813, and
had superintended the railroads connected with the numerous collieries of the grand allies
from that time downward. He had laid down or superintended the railways at Burradon, Mount
Moor, Springwell, Bedlington, Helton, and Darlington, besides improving those at Killingworth,
South Moor, and Derwent Crook. He had constructed fifty-five steam-engines, of which sixteen
were locomotives. Some of these had been sent to France. The engines constructed by him for
the working of the Killingworth Railroad, eleven years before, had continued steadily at work
ever since, and fulfilled his most sanguine expectations. He was prepared to prove the safety
of working high-pressure locomotives on a railroad, and the superiority of this mode of transporting
goods over all others. As to speed, he said he had recommended eight miles an hour with twenty
tons, and four miles an hour with forty tons; but he was quite confident that much more might
be done. Indeed he had no doubt they might go at the rate of twelve miles. As to the charge
that locomotives on a railroad would so terrify the horses in the neighborhood that to travel
on horseback or to plow the adjoining fields would be rendered highly dangerous, the witness
said that horses learned to take no notice of them, though there were horses that would shy
at a wheelbarrow. A mail-coach was likely to be more shied at by horses than a locomotive.
In the neighborhood of Killingworth, the cattle in the fields went on grazing while the engines
passed them, and the farmers made no complaints.

Mr. Alderson, who had carefully studied the subject, and was well skilled in practical science,
subjected the witness to a protracted and severe cross-examination as to the speed and power
of the locomotive, the stroke of the piston, the slipping of the wheels upon the rails, and
various other points of detail. Stephenson insisted that no slipping took place, as attempted
to be extorted from him by the counsel. He said, "It is impossible for slipping to take place
so long as the adhesive weight of the wheel upon the rail is greater than the weight to be
dragged after it." There was a good deal of interruption to the witness's answers by Mr. Alderson,
to which Mr. Joy more than once objected. As to accidents, Stephenson knew of none that had
occurred with his engines. There had been one, he was told, at the Middleton Colliery, near
Leeds, with a Blenkinsop engine. The driver had been in liquor, and put a considerable load
on the safety-valve, so that upon going forward the engine blew up and the man was killed.
But he added, if proper precautions had been used with that boiler, the accident could not
have happened. The following cross-examination occurred in reference to the question of speed:

"Of course," he was asked, "when a body is moving upon a road, the greater the velocity the
greater the momentum that is generated?" "Certainly." "What would be the momentum of forty
tons moving at the rate of twelve miles an hour?" "It would be very great." "Have you seen
a railroad that would stand that?" "Yea." "Where?" "Any railroad that would bear going four
miles an hour; I mean to say, that if it would bear the weight at four miles an hour, it would
bear it at twelve." "Taking it at four miles an hour, do you mean to say that it would not
require a stronger railway to carry the same weight twelve miles an hour?" "I will give an
answer to that. I dare say every person has been over ice when skating, or seen persons go
over, and they know that it would bear them better at a greater velocity than it would if they
went slower; when they go quick, the weight in a measure ceases." "Is not that upon the hypothesis
that the railroad is perfect?" "It is; and I mean to make it perfect."

It is not necessary to state that to have passed through his severe ordeal scatheless needed
no small amount of courage, intelligence, and ready shrewdness on the part of the witness.
Nicholas Wood, who was present on the occasion, has since stated that the point on which Stephenson
was hardest pressed was that of speed. "I believe," he says, "that it would have lost the company
their bill if he had gone beyond eight or nine miles an hour. If he had stated his intention
of going twelve or fifteen miles an hour, not a single person would have believed it to be
practicable." Mr. Alderson had, indeed, so pressed the point of "twelve miles an hour," and
the promoters were so alarmed lest it should appear in evidence that they contemplated any
such extravagant rate of speed, that immediately on Mr. Alderson sitting down, Mr. Joy proceeded
to re-examine Stephenson, with the view of removing from the minds of the committee an impression
so unfavorable, and as they supposed, so damaging to their case. "With regard," asked Mr. Joy,
"to all those hypothetical questions of my learned friend, they have been all put on the supposition
of going twelve miles an hour; now that is not the rate at which, I believe, any of the engines
of which you have spoken have traveled?" "No," replied Stephenson, "except as an experiment
for a short distance." "But what they have gone has been three, five, or six miles an hour?"
"Yes." "So that those hypothetical cases of twelve miles an hour do not fall within your general
experience?" "They do not."

The committee also seem to have entertained some alarm as to the high rate of speed which had
been spoken of, and proceeded to examine the witness farther on the subject. They supposed
the case of the engine being upset when going at nine miles an hour, and asked what, in such
a case, would become of the cargo astern. To which the witness replied that it would not be
upset. One of the members of the committee pressed the witness a little farther. He put the
following case: "Suppose, now, one of these engines to be going along a railroad at the rate
of nine or ten miles an hour, and that a cow were to stray upon the line and get in the way
of the engine; would not that, think you, be a very awkward circumstance?" "Yes," replied the
witness, with a twinkle in his eye, "very awkward-for the cow!" The honorable member did not
proceed farther with his cross-examination; to use a railway phrase, he was "shunted." Another
asked if animals would not be very much frightened by the engine passing at night, especially
by the glare of the red-hot chimney? "But how would they know that it wasn't painted?" said
the witness.

IV

LORD JOHN RUSSELL

THOMAS MOORE TO LORD RUSSELL

[About the year 1816 Lord Russell's health being delicate he was rarely in his seat in the
House of Commons, and even expressed his determination to withdraw from public life altogether.
This "Remonstrance" from the poet Thomas Moore is valuable at least for the view which it gives
of the considerations which impelled the scion of the great Whig house to serve his country.]

What! thou, with thy genius, thy youth, and thy name! Thou, born of a Russell, whose instinct
to run The accustom'd career of thy sires is the same As the eaglet's to soar with his eyes
on the sun; Whose nobility comes to thee, stamp'd with a seal Far, far more ennobling than
monarch e'er set; With the blood of thy race offer'd up for the weal Of a nation that swears
by that martyrdom yet! Shalt thou be faint-hearted, and turn from the strife, From the mighty
arena, where all that is grand, And devoted, and pure, and adorning in life Is for high-thoughted
spirits like thine to command? Oh no! never dream it; while good men despair Between tyrants
and traitors, and timid men bow, Never think for an instant thy country can spare Such a light
from her dark'ning horizon as thou! Like the boughs of that laurel, by Delphi's decree, Set
apart for the fame and its service divine, All the branches that spring from the old Russell
tree Are by liberty claim'd for the use of her shrine.

ON BRIBERY AT ELECTIONS

[After his unsuccessful contest for a seat in the House of Commons for Huntingdon in 1826,
Lord John Russell drafted a measure for the prevention of bribing and sent it to Lord Althorp
with a letter which was published in "The Times " and attracted much notice. The following
passages are extracted.]

Bribery is clearly forbidden by the law, and it is competent for every British subject to petition
the House of Commons, praying them to inquire into any particular instance of that offense
which may have occurred under his own observation. The House may, if it thinks fit, refer such
a petition to the Committee of Privileges, or to any other committee it may choose to appoint
for the purpose.

Bribery in a candidate, however, makes void the election, and a petition complaining of bribery
committed, with a view to the last election in a borough, is properly an election petition.
But a term of fourteen days is the limited period within which a petition of this nature can
be presented, and various onerous duties are imposed upon the petitioner--he must enter into
a recognizance to pursue his complaint, and must incur an expense of some hundreds or even
some thousands in prosecuting the inquiry.

Still this mode of inquiry is now so established that when upon two or three occasions complaints
have been sent to me of bribery in a particular borough, I feared to bring them before the
House of Commons lest I should be told that the petition was an election petition which could
not otherwise be entertained.

. . .

From this state of things great impunity has been allowed to gross acts of corruption. A gentleman
from London goes down to a borough of which he scarcely before knew the existence. The electors
do not ask his political opinions; they do not inquire into his private character; they only
require to be satisfied of the impurity of his intentions. If he is elected no one, in all
probability, contests the validity of his return. His opponents are as guilty as he is and
no other person will incur the expense of a petition for the sake of a public benefit. Fifteen
days after the meeting of Parliament a handsome reward is distributed to each of the worthy
and independent electors.

This is the practice against which the resolutions of the late House of Commons were directed.
They pledge the House to inquiry not on a question between two rivals contending for a seat,
but on a question affecting the character and purity of Parliament. They allow complaints to
be made not only against the sitting member, but against the borough; they enlarge the time
within which such complaints may be made, and instead of deterring petitioners by expense,
they provide that a specific complaint, if fit to be inquired into, shall be inquired into
for the sake of the public at the public cost.

Such is the proposition approved by the late House of Commons, and which I venture to think
not unworthy of being countenanced by a Whig reformer. There are many other abuses in our present
mode of elections, to which local remedies might, I think, be successfully applied; nor is
there any one more fit or more able than yourself to conduct such measures. Undoubtedly many
obstacles would be raised to delay our progress, especially on the part of "the presiding genius
of the House of Lords." But I am persuaded that reformers in general have never made a sufficient
estimate of the support they would receive, or set a sufficient value on the objects they might
attain, by a vigorous attack on particular abuses.

THE CHAMPION OF REFORM

[Lord John Russell's share in carrying the Reform Act of 1832 was celebrated by Lord Lyttleton
in the following lines.]

In England's worst days, when her rights and her laws Were spurned by a Prince of the fell
Stuart line, A Russell stood forth to assert her lost cause, And perish'd a martyr at liberty's
shrine. The smell of that sacrifice mounted to heaven; The cry of that blood rose not thither
in vain; The crime of the tyrant was never forgiven; And a blessing was breathed on the race
of the slain. Dethroned and degraded, the Stuart took flight, He fled to the land where the
Bourbon bore sway, A curse clung to his offspring, a curse and a blight, And in exile and sorrow
it wither'd away. But there sprang from the blood of the martyr a race Which for virtue and
courage unrival'd has shone; Its honors still worn with a patriot grace, Still loved by the
people, revered by the throne. And see where in front of the battle again A Russell, sweet
liberty's champion, appears; While myriads of freemen compose his bright train, And the blessing
still lives through the long lapse of years.

V

RICHARD COBDEN

[During the parliamentary session of 1846 when the bill for the repeal of the Corn Law was
passing through its parliamentary stages, Mr. Cobden's letters from London to personal friends
and to his wife afford frequent glimpses of his interest, his suspense, and his final exultation.]

"London, February 19th. To T. H. Ashworth: Your letter has followed me here. Peel's declaration
in the House that he will adopt immediate repeal if it is voted by the Commons, seems to me
to remove all difficulty from Villiers's path; he can now propose his old motion without the
risk of doing any harm even if he should not succeed. As respects the future course of the
league, the less that is said now about it publicly the better. If Peel's measure should become
law, then the Council will be compelled to face the question, 'What shall the League do during
the three years?' It has struck me that under such circumstances we might absolve the large
subscribers from all further calls, put the staff of the League on a peace footing, and merely
keep alive a nominal organization to prevent any attempt to undo the good work we have effected.
Not that I fear any reaction. On the contrary, I believe the popularity of free-trade principles
is only in its infancy, and that it will every year take firmer hold of the head and heart
of the community. But there is perhaps something due to our repeated pledges that we will not
dissolve until the Corn Laws are entirely abolished. In any case the work will be effectually
finished during this year, provided the League preserve its firm and united position; and it
is to prevent the slightest appearance of disunion that I would avoid now talking in public
about the future course of the League. It is the League, and it only, that frightens the peers.
It is the League alone which enables Peel to repeal the law. But for the League the aristocracy
would have hunted Peel to a premature grave, or consigned him like Lord Melbourne to a private
station at the bare mention of total repeal. We must hold the same rod over the Lords until
the measure is safe; after that I agree with you in thinking that it matters little whether
the League dies with honors, or lingers out a few years of inglorious existence."

"May 16th. To F. W. Cobden: I last night had the glorious privilege of giving a vote in the
majority for the third reading of the bill for the total repeal of the Corn Law. The bill is
now out of the House, and will go up to the Lords on Monday. I trust we shall never hear the
name of 'Corn' again in the Commons. There was a good deal of cheering and waving of hats when
the Speaker had put the question, that this bill do now pass.' Lord Morpeth, Macaulay, and
others came and shook hands with me, and congratulated me on the triumph of our cause. I did
not speak, simply for the reason that I was afraid that I should give more life to the debate,
and afford an excuse for another adjournment; otherwise I could have made a telling and conciliatory
appeal. Villiers tried to speak at three o'clock this morning, but I did not think he took
the right tone. He was fierce against the protectionists, and only irritated them, and they
wouldn't hear him. The reports about the doings in the Lords are still not satisfactory or
conclusive. Many people fear still that they will alter the measure with a view to a compromise.
But I hope we shall escape any further trouble upon the question.....I feel little doubt that
I shall be able to pay a visit to your father at midsummer. At least nothing but the Lords
throwing back the bill upon the country could prevent my going into Wales at the time, for
I shall confidently expect them to decide one way or another by the 15th of June. I shall certainly
vote and speak against the Factory Bill next Friday."

"May 18th. To Mrs. Cobden: We are so beset by contradictory rumors, that I know not what to
say about our prospects in the Lords. Our good, conceited friend told me on Wednesday that
he knew the peers would not pass the measure, and on Saturday he assured me that they would.
And this is a fair specimen of the way in which rumors vary from day to day. This morning Lord
Monteagle called on me, and was strongly of the opinion that they would 'move on, and not stand
in people's way.' A few weeks will now decide the matter one way or another. I think I told
you that I dined at Moffat's last Wednesday. As usual he gave us a first- rate dinner. After
leaving Moffat's at eleven o'clock, I went to a squeeze at Mrs. --. It was as usual hardly
possible to get inside the drawing-room doors. I only remained a quarter of an hour, and then
went home. On Saturday I dined at Lord and Lady John's, and met a select party, whose names
I see in to-day's papers.....I am afraid if I associate much with the aristocracy, they will
spoil me. I am already half-seduced by the fascinating ease of their parties."

"May 19th. To F. W. Cobden: I received your letters with the enclosures. We are still on the
tenter-hooks respecting the conduct of the Lords. There is, however, one cheering point: the
majority on the second reading is improving in the stock-books of the whippers-in. It is now
expected that there will be forty to fifty majority at the second reading. This will of course
give us a better margin for the committee. The government and Lord John (who is very anxious
to get the measure through) are doing all they can to insure success. The ministers from Lisbon,
Florence, and other continental cities (where they are peers) are coming home to vote in committee.
Last night was a propitious beginning in the Lords. The Duke of Richmond was in a passion,
and his tone and manner did not look like a winner."

"June 10th. To F. W. Cobden: There is another fit of apprehension about the Corn Bill, owing
to the uncertainty of Peel's position. I can't understand his motive for constantly poking
his coercive bill in our faces at these critical moments. The Lords will take courage at anything
that seems to weaken the government morally. They are like a fellow going to be hanged who
looks out for a reprieve, and is always hoping for a lucky escape until the drop falls."

"June 18th. To Mrs. Cobden: The Lords will not read the Corn Bill the third time before Tuesday
next, and I shall be detained in town to vote on the Coercion Bill on Thursday, after which
I shall leave for Manchester. I send you a 'Spectator' paper, by which you will see that I
am a 'likeable' person, I hope you will appreciate this."

"June 23d. To Mrs. Cobden: I have been plagued for several days with sitting to Herbert for
the picture of the Council of the League, and it completely upsets my afternoons. Besides my
mind has been more than ever upon the worry about that affair which is to come off after the
Corn Bill is settled, and about which I hear all sorts of reports. You must therefore excuse
me if I could not sit down to write a letter of news.....I thought the Corn Bill would certainly
be read the third time on Tuesday (to- morrow), but I now begin to think it will be put off
till Thursday. There is literally no end to this suspense. But there are reports of Peel being
out of office on Friday next, and the peers may yet ride restive."

"June 26th. To Mrs. Cobden: My Dearest Kate-Hurrah! Hurrah! the Corn Bill is law, and now my
work is done. I shall come down to- morrow morning by the six o'clock train in order to be
present at a Council meeting at three, and shall hope to be home in time for a late tea."

A CORN-LAW RHYME

[Ebenezer Elliott, "The Corn-Law Rhymer," contributed to the agitation such "Songs" as this.]

Child, is thy father dead? Father is gone! Why did they tax his bread? God's will be done!
Mother has sold her bed; Better to die than wed! Where shall she lay her head? Home we have none!

Father clammed thrice a week- God's will be done! Long for work did he seek, Work he found
none; Tears on his hollow cheek Told what no tongue could speak! Why did his master break?
God's will be done!

Doctor said air was best- Food we had none; Father with panting breast Groaned to be gone;
Now he is with the blest- Mother says death is best! We have no place of rest- Yes, we have one!

VI

SIR ROBERT PEEL

[On the night when the bill for the repeal of the Corn Laws came up for its passage in the
House of Commons, the Prime Minister, who had been elected on a protectionist "platform," concluded
the debate in a powerful speech, which culminated in these impressive sentences.]

THE REPEAL OF THE CORN LAWS (1846)

This night is to decide between the policy of continued relaxation of restriction, or the return
to restraint and prohibition. This night you will select the motto which is to indicate the
commercial policy of England. Shall it be "advance" or "recede"? Which is the fitter motto
for this great empire? Survey our position, consider the advantage which God and nature have
given us, and the destiny for which we are intended. We stand on the confines of western Europe,
the chief connecting link between the Old World and the New. The discoveries of science, the
improvement of navigation, have brought us within ten days of St. Petersburg, and will soon
bring us within ten days of New York. We have an extent of coast greater in proportion to our
population and the area of our land than any other great nation, securing to us maritime strength
and superiority. Iron and coal, the sinews of manufacture, give us advantages over every rival
in the great competition of industry. Our capital far exceeds that which they can command.
In ingenuity, in skill, in energy, we are inferior to none. Our national character, the free
institutions under which we live, the liberty of thought and action, an unshackled press, spreading
the knowledge of every discovery and of every advance in science- -combine with our natural
and physical advantages to place us at the head of those nations which profit by the free interchange
of their products. And is this the country to shrink from competition? Is this the country
to adopt a retrograde policy? Is this the country which can only flourish in the sickly, artificial
atmosphere of prohibition? Is this the country to stand shivering on the brink of exposure
to the healthful breezes of competition?

Choose your motto. "Advance" or "recede." Many countries are watching with anxiety the selection
you may make. Determine for "advance," and it will be the watchword which will animate and
encourage in every state the friends of liberal commercial policy. Sardinia has taken the lead.
Naples is relaxing her protective duties and favoring British produce. Prussia is shaken in
her adherence to restriction. The government of France will be strengthened; and backed by
the intelligence of the reflecting, and by conviction of the real welfare of the great body
of the community, will perhaps ultimately prevail over the self-interest of the commercial
and manufacturing aristocracy which now predominates in her chambers. Can you doubt that the
United States will soon relax her hostile tariff, and that the friends of a freer commercial
intercourse--the friends of peace between the two countries--will hail with satisfaction the
example of England?

This night, then--if on this night the debate shall close--you will have to decide what are
the principles by which your commercial policy is to be regulated. Most earnestly, from a deep
conviction, founded not upon the limited experience of three years alone, but upon the experience
of the results of every relaxation of restriction and prohibition, I counsel you to set the
example of liberality to other countries. Act thus, and it will be in perfect consistency with
the course you have hitherto taken. Act thus, and you will provide an additional guarantee
for the continued contentment, and happiness, and well-being of the great body of the people.
Act thus, and you will have done whatever human sagacity can do for the promotion of commercial
prosperity.

You may fail. Your precautions may be unavailing. They may give no certain assurance that mercantile
and manufacturing prosperity will continue without interruption. It seems to be incident to
great prosperity that there shall be a reverse--that the time of depression shall follow the
season of excitement and success. That time of depression must perhaps return; and its return
may be coincident with scarcity caused by unfavorable seasons. Gloomy winters, like those of
1841 and 1842, may again set in. Are those winters effaced from your memory? From mine they
never can be.....

These sad times may recur. "The years of plenteous-ness may have ended," and "the years of
dearth may have come"; and again you may have to offer the unavailing expressions of sympathy,
and the urgent exhortations to patient resignation.....

When you are again exhorting a suffering people to fortitude under their privations, when you
are telling them, "These are the chastenings of an all-wise and merciful Providence, sent for
some inscrutable but just and beneficent purpose, it may be, to humble our pride, or to punish
our unfaithfulness, or to impress us with the sense of our own nothingness and dependence on
His mercy," when you are thus addressing your suffering fellow-subjects, and encouraging them
to bear without repining the dispensations of Providence, may God grant that by your decision
of this night you may have laid in store for yourselves the consolation of reflecting that
such calamities are, in truth, the dispensations of Providence--that they have not been caused,
they have not been aggravated, by laws of man, restricting, in the hour of scarcity, the supply
of food!

VII

LORD SHAFTESBURY INTRODUCTION TO THE CAUSE OF LABOR

[In February, 1833, when the failure of Michael Sadler to be returned to Parliament left his
"Short Time Bill" without a champion, Lord Ashley (afterwards known as Lord Shaftesbury) was
asked to lead the cause. His decision was thus announced to the local "Short Time Committees"
in the manufacturing towns.]

Rev. G. S. Bull to Short Time Committees.

London, February 6, 1833.

Dear Sir:--I have to inform you that in furtherance of the object of the delegates' meeting,
I have succeeded, under Mr. Sadler's sanction, in prevailing upon Lord Ashley to move his (Mr.
Sadler's) bill.

Lord Ashley gave notice yesterday afternoon, at half-past two, of a motion on the 5th of March,
for leave "to renew the bill brought in by Mr. Sadler last session, to regulate the labor of
children in the mills and factories of the United Kingdom, with such amendments and additions
as appear necessary from the evidence given before the select Committee of this House."

This notice, I am very happy to say (for I was present), was received with hearty and unusual
cheers from all parts of a House of more than three hundred. No other notice was so cheered;
and more than forty, some of them very popular, were given at the same time.

I am informed that Lord Ashley received many unexpected assurances of support immediately after
his notice, and has had more since.

Pray call your committee together directly, and read this to them. As to Lord Ashley, he is
noble, benevolent, and resolute in mind, as he is manly in person. I have been favored with
several interviews, and all of the most satisfactory kind. On one occasion his Lordship said,
"I have only zeal and good intentions to bring to this work; I can have no merit in it, that
must all belong to Mr. Sadler. It seems no one else will undertake it, so I will; and without
cant or hypocrisy, which I hate, I assure you I dare not refuse the request you have so earnestly
pressed. I believe it is my duty to God and to the poor, and I trust he will support me. Talk
of trouble! What do we come to Parliament for?"

In a letter he writes: "To me it appeared an affair, less of policy than of religion, and I
determined, therefore, at all hazards to myself, to do what I could in furtherance of the views
of that virtuous and amiable man" (meaning Mr. Sadler).

I have just left his Lordship, and find him more determined than ever. He says, it is your
cause; if you support him, he will never flinch.

Yours most faithfully,           G. S. BULL.

THE MOTIVES OF A REFORMER

[To Richard Oastler, a zealous leader of the working-people outside of Parliament, who had
pledged him his support, Lord Ashley wrote this characteristic letter.]

Lord Ashley to Mr. Richard Oastler.

February 16, 1833.

Dear Sir:-I am much obliged to you for your kind and energetic letter; much, very much, is
owing to your humanity and zeal, and though I cannot reckon deeply on the gratitude of multitudes,
yet I will hope that your name will, for years to come, be blessed by those children who have
suffered, or would have suffered, the tortures of a factory. It is very cruel upon Mr. Sadler
that he is debarred from the joy of putting the crown on his beloved measure; however, his
must be the honor, though another may complete it; and for my part, I feel that, if I were
to believe that my exertions ought to detract the millionth part from his merits, I should
be one of the most unprincipled and contemptible of mankind. Ask the question simply, Who has
borne the real evil, who has encountered the real opposition, who roused the sluggish public
to sentiments of honor and pity? Why, Mr. Sadler; and I come in (supposing I succeed) to terminate
in the twelfth hour his labor of the eleven. I greatly fear my ability to carry on this measure.
I wish, most ardently I wish, that some other had been found to undertake the cause; nothing
but the apprehension of its being lost induced me to acquiesce in Mr. Bull's request. I entertain
such strong opinions on the matter that I did not dare, as a Christian, to let my diffidence,
or love of ease, prevail over the demands of morality and religion.

Yours,     ASHLEY.

THE DIARY OF A PHILANTHROPIST

[Lord Shaftesbury's copious diaries were not intended for publication, but late in life he
permitted Mr. Hodder to introduce selections from them in his authorized Biography. These extracts
from the period when he was fighting the cause of the London chimney-sweeps, reflect the spirit
of the great philanthropist, the legislator who at twenty-five proposed "to found a public
policy upon the principles of the Bible."]

July 4th. Anxious, very anxious, about my sweeps; the Conservative (?) Peers threaten a fierce
opposition, and the Radical Ministers warmly support the bill. Normanby has been manly, open,
kind-hearted, and firm. As I said to him in a letter, so say I now, "God help him with the
bill, and God bless him for it!" I shall have no ease or pleasure in the recess, should these
poor children be despised by the Lords, and tossed to the mercy of their savage purchasers.
I find that Evangelical religionists are not those on whom I can rely. The Factory Question,
and every question for what is called "humanity," receive as much support from the "men of
the world" as from the men who say they will have nothing to do with it!

I do not wonder at the Duke of Wellington--I have never expected from him anything of the "soft
and tender" kind. Let people say what they will, he is a hard man.

July 21st. Much anxiety, hard labor, many hopes, and many fears, all rendered useless by "counting
out the House." The object of years within my grasp, and put aside in a moment. A notice to
investigate the condition of all the wretched and helpless children in pin-works, needle-works,
collieries, etc. The necessary and beneficial consequence of the Factory Question! God knows
I had felt for it, and prayed for it; but the day arrived; everything seemed adverse-a morning
sitting, a late period of the session, and a wet afternoon; and true enough, at five o'clock
there were but thirty-seven members, and these mostly Radicals or Whigs. Shall I have another
opportunity? The inquiry, without a statement in Parliament, will be but half the battle, nay,
not so much--I must have public knowledge and public opinion working with it. Well, it is God's
cause, and I commit it altogether to him. I am, however, sadly disappointed, but how weak and
short- sighted is man! This temporary failure may be the harbinger of success.

August 24th. Succeeded in both my suits. I undertook them in a spirit of justice. I constituted
myself, no doubt, a defender of the poor, to see that the poor and miserable had their rights;
but "I looked, and there was none to help. I wondered that there was none to uphold; therefore
God's arm, it brought salvation to me, and his fury, it upheld me." I stood to lose several
hundred pounds, but I have not lost a farthing; I have advanced the cause, done individual
justice, anticipated many calamities by this forced prevention, and soothed, I hope, many angry,
discontented Chartist spirits by showing them that men of rank and property can, and do, care
for the rights and feelings of all their brethren. Let no one ever despair of a good cause
for want of coadjutors; let him persevere, persevere, persevere, and God will raise him up
friends and assistants! I have had, and still have, Jowett and Low; they are matchless.

September 16th. I hear encouraging things, both of my speech in the House of Commons, and of
my suit v. Stocks. The justice of the suit is so manifest that even (so to speak) "my enemies
are at peace with me." What man ever lost in the long run by seeking God's honor?

September 19th. Steven wrote to me yesterday, and gave me information that he had at last succeeded
in negotiating the delivery of the wretched sweep behind my house in London. I had begun to
negotiate, but the master stood out for more money than was fair, and we determined to seek
the unnatural father of the boy, and tempt him, by the offer of a gratuitous education. We
have done so, and have prospered; and the child will this day be conveyed from his soot-hole
to the Union School on Norwood Hill, where, under God's blessing and especial, merciful grace,
he will be trained in the knowledge, and love, and faith of our common Lord and only Saviour
Jesus Christ. I entertain hopes of the boy; he is described as gentle, and of a sweet disposition;
we all know he has suffered, and were eager to rescue him from his temporal and spiritual tyrant.
May God, in his unbounded goodness and mercy, accept and defend the child, and train him up
to his honor and service, now and forever, through the mediation and love of our dear and blessed
Lord! Do you question the young children in the sorrow, Why their tears are falling so? The
old man may weep for his to-morrow, Which is lost in long ago; The old tree is leafless in
the forest, The old year is ending in the frost, The old wound, if stricken, is the sorest,
The old hope is hardest to be lost! 

[A] Cp. Theobald: None but himself can be his parallel.

[B] Cp. Sir W. Raleigh: Passions are best compared with floods and streams, The shallow murmur
but the deep are dumb.

[C] For dawning freedom makes the aged brave. MILLER.

[D] For thy impious love is worse Than her unnatural and impious love. The first you would impute
to character, The last to fate. MILLER.

If nothing had survived of Seneca's plays but a collection of sententiae, we might have regretted
his loss almost as we regret the loss of Menander.

Here his merits, such as they are, end: they fail to justify us in placing him high as a dramatist;
and he has many faults over and above those incidental to his style
and modes of thought.

While freer than most of his contemporaries from the vain display of obscure erudition, he
falls into the common vice of introducing 'catalogues'. They are dull in epic: in drama they
are worse than dull. The Hercules Furens is no place for a matter-of-fact catalogue of the
hero's labours, set forth (210-248) in monotonous iambics from the mouth of Amphitryon. If
they are to be described at all, they demand the decorative treatment of lyric verse,[200]
nor is a catalogue of the herbs used by Medea to poison the robe destined for her rival any
more excusable.[201] Again, like his contemporaries, he shows a lack of taste and humour which
in its worst manifestations passes belief.

Not a few of the passages already quoted serve to illustrate the point. But for fatuity it would
be hard to surpass the words with which Amphitryon interrupts Theseus' account of the horrors
of the underworld:
estne aliqua tellus Cereris aut Bacchi ferax? (H.F. 697.)

Scarcely
less absurd is the chorus in the Phaedra, who, when hymning the power
of love, give a long list of animals subject to such passion: the
catalogue culminates with the statement that even whales and elephants
fall in love (351):

amat insani belua ponti Lucaeque boves.

But
all such instances pale before the conclusion of the Phaedra. Not
content with giving a ghastly and exaggerated account of the death
of Hippolytus, Seneca must needs bring the fragments of his mutilated
body upon the scene.

"For all day the wheels are droning, turning; Their wind comes in our faces, Till our hearts
turn, our heads with pulses burning, And the walls turn in their places; Turns the sky in high
window blank and reeling, Turns the long light that drops adown the wall, Turn the black flies
that crawl along the ceiling, All are turning, all the day, and we with all; And all day the
iron wheels are droning And sometimes we could pray, 'O, ye wheels' (breaking out in mad moaning)
'Stop! be silent for to-day!'"

Aye, be silent! Let them hear each other breathing For a moment mouth to mouth! Let them touch
each other's hands in a fresh wreathing Of their tender human youth! Let them feel that this
cold metallic motion Is not all the life God fashions or reveals! Let them prove their living
souls against the notion That they live in you, or under you, O wheels! Still, all day the
iron wheels go onward, Grinding life down from its mark; And the children's souls which God
is calling sunward Spin on blindly in the dark.

Now, tell the poor young children, Oh, my brothers, To look up to Him and pray; So the blessed
One who blesseth all the others, Will bless them another day. They answer, "Who is God that
he should hear us, While the rushing of the iron wheels is stirr'd? When we sob aloud the human
creatures near us Pass by, hearing not, or answer not, a word. And we hear not (for the wheels
in their resounding) Strangers speaking at the door; Is it likely God, with angels singing
round him, Hears our weeping any more?

"Two words, indeed, of praying we remember, And at midnight's hour of harm, 'Our Father,' looking
upward in the chamber, We say softly for a charm. We know no other words except 'Our Father,'
And we think that, in some pause of the angels' song, God may pluck them with the silence sweet
to gather, And hold both within his right hand which is strong. 'Our Father!' If he heard us
he would surely (For they call him good and mild) Answer, smiling" down the steep world very
purely, 'Come and rest with me, my child.'"

"But no!" say the children, weeping faster, "He is speechless as a stone; And they tell us,
of his image is the master Who commands us to work on. Go to," say the children, "up in heaven,
Dark, wheel-like turning clouds are all we find. Do not mock us; grief has made us unbelieving;
We look up for God, but tears have made us blind." Do you hear the children weeping and disproving,
Oh, my brothers, what ye preach? For God's possible is taught by his world's loving, And the
children doubt of each.

And well may the children weep before you! They are weary ere they run; They have never seen
the sunshine, nor the glory Which is brighter than the sun. They know the grief of man without
its wisdom; They sink in man's despair without its calm; Are slaves, without the liberty in
Christendom; Are martyrs, by the pang without the palm; Are worn as if with age, yet unretrievingly
The harvest of its memories cannot reap- Are orphans of the earthly love and heavenly Let them
weep! Let them weep! He knows that his range is limited, that his sphere is comparatively humble,
but he is proud to excel in it. He has the artist's self-respect without his vanity.

His themes are manifold. He might have said, with even greater truth than Juvenal, 'quidquid agunt
homines, nostri est farrago libelli.' He does not go beneath the
surface, but almost every aspect of the kaleidoscopic world of Rome
receives his attention at one time or another.

His attitude is, on the whole, satirical, though his satire is not
inspired by deep or sincere indignation.

He is too easy in his morals and too good-humoured by temperament.

He is often insulting, but there is scarcely a line that breathes fierce resentment, while
his almost unparalleled obscenity precludes the intrusion of any
genuine earnestness of moral scorn in a very large number of his satiric
epigrams.

On these points he shall speak for himself; he makes no exacting claims.

'I hope,' he says in the preface to his first book, 'that I have exercised such restraint in
my writings that no one who is possessed of the least self-respect may have cause to complain of them.
My jests are never outrageous, even when directed against persons of the meanest consideration.
My practice in this respect is very different from that of early writers, who abused persons without
veiling their invective under a pseudonym. Nay more, their victims were men of the highest
renown.

My jeux d'esprit have no arrieres-pensees, and I hope that no one
will put an evil interpretation on them, nor rewrite my epigrams by
infusing his own malignance into his reading of them.

It is a scandalous injustice to exercise such ingenuity on what another
has written.

I would offer some excuse for the freedom and frankness of my language--which is, after all,
the language of epigram--if I were setting any new precedent. But all epigrammatists, Catullus, Marsus,
Pedo, Gaetulicus, have availed themselves of this licence of speech. But if any one wishes to
acquire notoriety by prudish severity, and refuses to permit me to write after the good Roman fashion
in so much as a single page of my work, he may stop short at the preface, or even at the title.
Epigrams are written for such persons as derive pleasure from the games at the Feast of Flowers.
Cato should not enter my theatre, but if he does enter it, let him be content to look on at
the sport which I provide.

I think I shall be justified in closing my preface with an epigram

TO
CATO

Once more the merry feast of Flora's come, With wanton jest
to split the sides of Rome; Yet come you, prince of prudes, to view
the show.

Why come you? merely to be shocked and go?'

He reasserts the kindliness of his heart and the excellence of his intentions elsewhere:

hunc servare modum nostri novere libelli; parcere personis, dicere de vitiis (x. 33).

For in my verses 'tis my constant care To lash the vices, but the persons spare. HAY.

Malignant critics had exercised their ingenuity in the manner which he deprecated.[659] Worse
still, libellous verse had been falsely circulated as his:

quid prodest, cupiant cum quidam nostra videri si qua Lycambeo sanguine tela madent, vipereumque
vomant nostro sub nomine virus qui Phoebi radios ferre diemque negant? (vii. 12. 5).

But what does't avail, If in bloodfetching lines others do rail, And vomit viperous poison in my
name, Such as the sun themselves to own do shame? ANON., 1695.

In this respect his defence of himself is just. When he writes in a vein of invective his victim
is never mentioned by name.
 For while we have seen, as stated by the right honorable baronet, the political
earthquake rocking Europe from side to side; while we have seen thrones shaken, shattered,
leveled, institutions overthrown and destroyed; while in almost every country of Europe the
conflict of civil war has deluged the land with blood, from the Atlantic to the Black Sea,
from the Baltic to the Mediterranean, this country has presented a spectacle honorable to the
people of England and worthy of the admiration of mankind.

We have shown that liberty is compatible with order; that individual freedom is reconcilable
with obedience to the law. We have shown the example of a nation in which every class of society
accepts with cheerfulness the lot which Providence has assigned to it, while at the same time
every individual of each class is constantly striving to raise himself in the social scale
not by injustice and wrong, not by violence and illegality, but by persevering good conduct,
and by the steady and energetic exertion of the moral and intellectual faculties with which
his Creator has endowed him. To govern such a people as this is indeed an object worthy of
the ambition of the noblest man who lives in the land, and therefore I find no fault with those
who may think any opportunity a fair one for endeavoring to place themselves in so distinguished
and honorable a position; but I contend that we have not in our foreign policy done anything
to forfeit the confidence of the country. We may not, perhaps, in this matter or in that, have
acted precisely up to the opinions of one person or of another; and hard indeed it is, as we
all know by our individual and private experience, to find any number of men agreeing entirely
in any matter on which they may not be equally possessed of the details of the facts, circumstances,
reasons, and conditions which led to action. But making allowance for those differences of
opinion which may fairly and honorably arise among those who concur in general views, I maintain
that the principles which can be traced through all our foreign transactions, as the guiding
rule and directing spirit of our proceedings, are such as deserve approbation.

THE SEPOY MUTINY

THE DEFENSE OF LUCKNOW

[Tennyson's poem was inspired by the recital of one of the most notable features of the Great
Mutiny.]

I

Banner of England, not for a season, O banner of Britain, hast thou Floated in conquering--battle,
or flapped to the battle-cry! Never with mightier glory than when we had reared thee on high
Flying at top of the roofs in the ghastly siege of Lucknow-- Shot thro' the staff or the halyard,
but ever we raised thee anew, And ever upon our topmost roof our banner of England blew.

II

Frail were the works that defended the hold that we held with our lives- Women and children
among us, God help them, our children and wives! Hold it we might, and for fifteen days, or
for twenty at most. "Never surrender, I charge you, but every man die at his post!" Voice of
the dead whom we loved, our Laurence, the best of the brave: Cold were his brows when we kissed
him-we laid him that night in his grave. "Every man die at his post!" and there halted on our
houses and halls Death from their rifle-bullets, and death from their cannon- balls; Death
in our innermost chamber, and death at our slight barricade; Death while we stood with the
musket, and death while we stooped to the spade; Death to the dying, and wounds to the wounded,
for often there fell, Striking the hospital wall, crashing thro' it, their shot and their shell;
Death--for their spies were among us, their marksmen were told of our best, So that the brute
bullet broke thro' the brain that would think for the rest; Bullets would sing by our foreheads,
and bullets would rain at our feet-- Fire from ten thousand at once of the rebels who girdled
us round-- Death at the glimpse of a finger from over the breadth of a street; Death from the
heights of the mosque and the palace, and death in the ground! Mine? Yes, a mine. Countermine!
down, down! and creep thro' the hole! Keep the revolver in hand! you can hear him--the murderous
mole! Quiet, ah! quiet--wait till the point of the pick-ax be thro'! Click with the pick coming
nearer and nearer again than before-- Now let it speak, and you fire, and the dark pioneer
is no more; And ever upon our topmost roof our banner of England blew.

III

Aye, but the foe sprung his mine many times, and it chanced on a day Soon as the blast of that
underground thunder-clap echoed away, Dark thro' the smoke and the sulphur, like so many fiends
in their hell, Cannon-shot, musket-shot, volley on volley, and yell upon yell-- Fiercely on
all the defenses our myriad enemy fell. What have they done? Where is it? Out yonder, guard
the Redan! Storm at the water-gate! storm at the Bailey-gate! storm! and it ran Surging and
swaying all round us, as ocean on every side Plunges and heaves at a bank that is daily drowned
by the tide-- So many thousands, that if they be bold enough, who shall escape? Kill or be
killed, live or die, they shall know we are soldiers and men! Ready! take aim at their leaders--their
masses are gapped with our grape-- Backward they reel like the wave, like the wave flinging
forward again, Flying and foiled at the last by the handful they could not subdue; And ever
upon our topmost roof our banner of England blew.

IV

Handful of men as we were, we were English in heart and in limb, Strong with the strength of
the race, to command, to obey, to endure, Each of us fought as if hope for the garrison hung
but on him; Still, could we watch at all points? We were every day fewer and fewer. There was
a whisper among us, but only a whisper that passed: "Children and wives--if the tigers leap
into the fold unawares- Every man die at his post-and the foe may outlive us at last-- Better
to fall by the hands that they love, than to fall into theirs." Roar upon roar in a moment,
two mines by the enemy sprung, Clove into perilous chasms our walls and our poor palisades,
Rifleman, true is your heart, but be sure that your hand be as true! Sharp is the fire of assault,
better aimed are your flank fusillades-- Twice do we hurl them to earth from the ladders to
which they had clung, Twice from the ditch where they shelter, we drive them with hand- grenades;
And ever upon our topmost roof our banner of England blew.

V

Then on another wild morning, another wild earthquake out-tore, Clean from our lines of defense
ten or twelve good paces or more. Rifleman high on the roof, hidden there from the light of
the sun-- One has leapt upon the breach crying out, "Follow me, follow me!" Mark him-he falls!
then another, and down goes he. Had they been bold enough then, who can tell but the traitors
had won? Boardings and rafters and doors! an embrasure! make way for the gun! Now double-charge
it with grape! it is charged and we fire and they run. Praise to our Indian brothers, and let
the dark face have his due! Thanks to the kindly dark faces who fought with us, faithful and
few, Fought with the bravest among us, and drove them, and smote them and slew, That ever upon
our topmost roof our banner in India blew.

VI

Men will forget what we suffer, and not what we do; we can fight! But to be soldier all day,
and be sentinel all thro' the night-- Ever the mine and assault, our sallies, their lying alarms,
Bugles and drums in the darkness, and shoutings and soundings to arms; Ever the labor of fifty
that had to be done by five; Ever the marvel among us that one should be left alive; Ever the
day with its traitorous death from the loopholes around; Ever the night with its coffinless
corpse to be laid in the ground; Heat like the mouth of a hell, or a deluge of cataract skies,
Stench of old offal decaying, and infinite torment of flies, Thoughts of the breezes of May
blowing over an English field, Cholera, scurvy, and fever, the wound that would not be healed;
Lopping away of the limb by the pitiful, pitiless knife-- Torture and trouble in vain-for it
never could save us a life. Valor of delicate women who tended the hospital bed; Horror of
women in travail among the dying and dead; Grief for our perishing children, and never a moment
for grief, Toil and ineffable weariness, faltering hopes of relief; Havelock baffled, or beaten,
or butchered for all that we knew-- Then day and night, day and night coming down on the still
shatter'd walls Millions of musket-bullets and thousands of cannon-balls; But ever upon the
topmost roof our banner of England blew.

VII

Hark, cannonade, fusillade! Is it true what was told by the scout, Outram and Havelock breaking
their way thro' the fell mutineers? Surely the pibroch of Europe is ringing again in our ears!
All on a sudden the garrison utter a jubilant shout, Havelock's glorious Highlanders answer
with conquering cheers, Sick from the hospital echo them, women and children come out, Blessing
the wholesome white faces of Havelock's good fusileers, Kissing the war-hardened hand of the
Highlander, wet with their tears! Dance to the pibroch! Saved! We are saved! Is it you? Is
it you? Saved by the valor of Havelock; saved by the blessing of heaven! "Hold it for fifteen
days!" We have held it for eighty-seven! And ever aloft on the palace roof the old banner of
England blew.

THE LIGHT BRIGADE AT BALAKLAVA

[In a letter to the London Times Mr. W. H. Russell, the war correspondent, described the charge
of the Light Brigade at Balaklava, one of the most notable incidents of the Crimean War.]

Supposing the spectator, then, to take his stand on one of the heights forming the rear of
our camp before Sebastopol, he would have seen the town of Balaklava, with its scanty shipping,
its narrow strip of water, and its old forts, on his right hand; immediately below he would
have beheld the valley and plain of coarse meadowland, occupied by our cavalry tents, and stretching
from the base of the ridge on which he stood to the foot of the formidable heights at the other
side; he would have seen the French trenches lined with zouaves a few feet beneath, and distant
from him, on the slope of the hill; a Turkish redoubt lower down, then another in the valley,
then, in a line with it, some angular earthworks; then, in succession, the other two redoubts
up to Canrobert's Hill.

At the distance of two and a half miles across the valley is an abrupt rocky mountain range
of most irregular and picturesque formation, covered with scanty brushwood here and there,
or rising into barren pinnacles and plateaux of rock. It is not improbable that the human species
dwelt nearly stationary for ages on the old continents of Africa and Asia, while Europe and America
were covered with water. Supposing these new continents formed, either by the gradual subsidence
of the sea or the rising of its bed, successive inhabitants would follow in the order presented
by existing organic remains. While covered by the sea, what now form Europe and America could
only be peopled by marine animals; but as the land rose or the waters
subsided into their ocean channels, and dry land appeared, reptiles
and amphibiæ might become the occupants; next, as the earth became
drier and more salubrious, the new continent would be resorted to
by terrestrial animals; in a still more advanced stage of purification
and salubrity, man himself, as the lord of all the preceding classes
of immigrants, would take possession, and as he still continues the
living occupant it is premature to look for his petrifaction.

ORIGIN OF THE ANIMATED TRIBES.

Science has mastered many perplexities, but is almost powerless as ever in generation. All that lives,
and still more all that moves, must have a pre-existing germ formed independently of the created being,
but which is essential to its existence, and fixes the type of organization. The old adage--omne
animal ab ovo--may be taken as generally true. But though every animal has its primordial egg
or germ, all germs are not identical. In the beginning of life there are other organic elements
besides the ovum. Partly on direct proof and partly on good analogy, it may be inferred that
these differ in different species--that each in the first stages of existence is bound by a different
and immutable mode of development--and, if so, there can be no embryotic identity. "By no
change of conditions," says Dr. CLARKE, "can two ova of animals of
the same species be developed into different animal species; neither
by any provision of identical conditions can two ova of different
species be developed into animals of the same kind."

If these views be right, and we believe them to be so, there cannot be a transmutation of species
under the influence of external circumstances.

Baffled in the effort either to create species or organically to change
them, attempts have been made to approach nearer to the source of
vitality, and explain the chemical, electric, or mechanical laws by
which the vital principle is influenced.

For this purpose various hypotheses have been put forth; one is the noted conjecture of Lord
MONBODDO, that man is only an advanced development of the chimpanzee or ourang-outang. In this
way the swiftness of the antelope, the claws and teeth of the lion, the trunk of the elephant,
the long neck of the giraffe have been produced, it is supposed, by a certain plastic character
in the construction of animals, operated upon for a long course of ages by the attempts which
these animals make to attain objects which their previous organization did not place within
their reach. This is what is meant by the hypothesis of progressive tendencies, and which
requires for its validity not only the assumption of a mere capacity for change, but of active
principles conducive to improvement and the attainment of higher powers and faculties. More recently
ST. HILAIRE has published a paper in which he speaks of the immutability of species as a conviction
that is on the decline, and that the age of CUVIER is on the close. Carried away by what Professor
PHILLIPS has called a poetical conjecture that cannot be proved, this writer propounded the
speculation that the present crocodiles are really the offspring of crocodilian reptiles, the difference
being merely the effect of physical conditions, especially operating during long geological
periods upon one original race. The human species, he contends, are but an advanced development
of the higher order of the monkey tribe, and that the negroes are degenerating towards that
type again

.
 The only support our light
cavalry had was the reserve of heavy cavalry at a great distance behind them, the infantry
and guns being far in the rear. There were no squadrons in column at all, and there was a plain
to charge over, before the enemy's guns could be reached, of a mile and a half in length.

At ten minutes past eleven our light cavalry brigade advanced. The whole brigade scarcely made
one effective regiment, according to the numbers of continental armies; and yet it was more
than we could spare. As they rushed towards the front, the Russians opened on them from the
guns in the redoubt on the right, with volleys of musketry and rifles. They swept proudly past,
glittering in the morning sun in all the pride and splendor of war. We could scarcely believe
our senses! Surely that handful of men were not going to charge an army in position? .... They
advanced in two lines, quickening their pace as they closed towards the enemy. A more fearful
spectacle was never witnessed by those who, without power to aid, beheld their heroic countrymen
rushing to the arms of death. At the distance of twelve hundred yards, the whole line of the
enemy belched forth, from thirty iron mouths, a flood of smoke and flame, through which hissed
the deadly balls. Their flight was marked by instant gaps in our ranks, by dead men and horses,
by steeds flying wounded or riderless across the plain. The first line was broken- -it was
joined by the second, they never halted or checked their speed an instant. With diminished
ranks, thinned by those thirty guns, which the Russians had laid with the most deadly accuracy,
with a halo of flashing steel above their heads, and with a cheer which was many a noble fellow's
death-cry, they flew into the smoke of the batteries; but ere they were lost to view, the plain
was strewed with their bodies and with the carcasses of horses. They were exposed to an oblique
fire from the batteries on the hills on both sides, as well as to the direct fire of musketry.

Through the clouds of smoke we could see their sabres flashing as they rode up to the guns
and dashed between them, cutting down the gunners as they stood. We saw them riding through
the guns, as I have said; to our delight we saw them returning, after breaking through a column
of Russian infantry, and scattering them like chaff, when the flank fire of the battery on
the hill swept them down. Wounded men and dismounted troopers flying towards us told the sad
tale--demi-gods could not have done what they had failed to do. At the very moment when they
were about to retreat a regiment of lancers was hurled upon their flank. Colonel Shewell, of
the Eighth Hussars, whose attention was drawn to them by Lieutenant Phillips, saw the danger,
and rode his few men straight at them, cutting his way through with fearful loss..... It was
as much as our heavy cavalry brigade could do to cover the retreat of the miserable remnants
of that band of heroes as they returned to the place they had so lately quitted in all the
pride of life. At thirty-five minutes past eleven not a British soldier, except the dead and
dying, was left in front of these bloody Muscovite guns.

IX

WILLIAM EWART GLADSTONE

[In 1886, Mr. Gladstone, being then in his seventy-seventh year, brought in his first bill
for Irish Home Rule. The wonderful series of speeches in its behalf was closed by one of great
power on the night of June 7th. It was already clear that the secessions from the Liberal ranks
would prevent the passage of the bill to its second reading. Just before the division the Prime
Minister spoke. The extract given below reproduces his final appeal.]

HOME RULE FOR IRELAND

This is the earliest moment in our parliamentary history when we have the voice of Ireland
authentically expressed in our hearing. Majorities of Home Rulers there may have been upon
other occasions; a practical majority of Irish members never has been brought together for
such a purpose. Now, first, we can understand her; now, first, we are able to deal with her;
we are able to learn authentically what she wants and wishes, what she offers and will do;
and as we ourselves enter into the strongest moral and honorable obligations by the steps which
we take in this House, so we have before us practically an Ireland under the representative
system able to give us equally authentic information, able morally to convey to us an assurance
the breach and rupture of which would cover Ireland with disgrace.....What is the case of Ireland
at this moment? Have honorable gentlemen considered that they are coming into conflict with
a nation? Can anything stop a nation's demand, except its being proved to be immoderate and
unsafe? But here are multitudes, and I believe millions upon millions, out-of-doors, who feel
this demand to be neither immoderate nor unsafe. In our opinion, there is but one question
before us about this demand. It is as to the time and circumstance of granting it. There is
no question in our minds that it will be granted. We wish it to be granted in the mode prescribed
by Mr. Burke.

The difference between giving with freedom and dignity on the one side, with acknowledgment
and gratitude on the other, and giving under compulsion, giving with disgrace, giving with
resentment dogging you at every step of your path, this difference is, in our eyes, fundamental,
and this is the main reason not only why we have acted, but why we have acted now. This, if
I understand it, is one of the golden moments of our history--one of those opportunities which
may come and may go, but which rarely return, or, if they return, return at long intervals,
and under circumstances which no man can forecast.

There have been such golden moments even in the tragic history of Ireland, as her poet says--

"One time the harp of Innisfail Was tuned to notes of gladness."

And then he goes on to say--

" But yet did oftener tell a tale Of more prevailing sadness."

But there was such a golden moment--it was in 1795--it was on the mission of Lord Fitzwilliam.
At that moment it is historically clear that the Parliament of Grattan was on the point of
solving the Irish problem. The two great knots of that problem were, in the first place, Roman
Catholic emancipation; and in the second place, the Reform of Parliament. The cup was at her
lips, and she was ready to drink it, when the hand of England rudely and ruthlessly dashed
it to the ground in obedience to the wild and dangerous intimations of an Irish faction.

"Ex illo fluere ac retro sublapsa referri, Spes Danaum." I do not deny that many are against
us whom we should have expected to be for us. I do not deny that some whom we see against us
have caused us by their conscientious action the bitterest disappointment. 

(1750), which has been translated into all civilized tongues, and
which is known, loved, quoted wherever English is spoken.

[Sidenote: GRAY'S ELEGY]

To criticize this favorite of a million readers seems almost ruthless, as if one were pulling
a flower to pieces for the sake of giving it a botanical name. A pleasanter task is to explain,
if one can, the immense popularity of the "Elegy." The theme is of profound interest to every
man who reveres the last resting place of his parents, to the nation which cherishes every
monument of its founders, and even to primitive peoples, like the
Indians, who refuse to leave the place where their fathers are buried,
and who make the grave a symbol of patriotism.

With this great theme our poet is in perfect sympathy. His attitude is simple and reverent; he
treads softly, as if on holy ground. The natural setting or atmosphere of his poem, the peace
of evening falling on the old churchyard at Stoke Poges, the curfew bell, the cessation of daily
toil, the hush which falls upon the twilight landscape like a summons to prayer,--all this
is exactly as it should be.

Finally, Gray's craftsmanship, his choice of words, his simple figures, his careful fitting
of every line to its place and context, is as near perfection as human skill could make it.

Other poems of Gray, which make his little book precious, are the four odes: "To Spring," "On
a Distant Prospect of Eton College," "The Progress of Poesy" and
"The Bard," the last named being a description of the dramatic end
of an old Welsh minstrel, who chants a wild prophecy as he goes to
his death.

These romantic odes, together with certain translations which Gray made from Norse mythology,
mark the end of "classic" domination in English poetry.

* * * * *

OLIVER GOLDSMITH (1728-1774)

Most versatile of eighteenth-century writers was "poor Noll," a most improvident kind of man
in all worldly ways, but so skillful with his pen that Johnson wrote a sincere epitaph to
the effect that Goldsmith attempted every form of literature, and
adorned everything which he attempted.

The form of his verse suggests the formal school, and his polished
couplets rival those of Pope; but there the resemblance ceases.

In his tenderness and humor, in his homely subjects and the warm human sympathy with which
he describes them, Goldsmith belongs to the new romantic school of poetry.

LIFE. The life of Goldsmith has inspired many pens; but the subject,
far from being exhausted, is still awaiting the right biographer.

The poet's youthful escapades in the Irish country, his classical education at Trinity College,
Dublin, and his vagabond studies among gypsies and peddlers, his
childish attempts at various professions, his wanderings over Europe,
his shifts and makeshifts to earn a living in London, his tilts with
Johnson at the Literary Club, his love of gorgeous raiment, his indiscriminate
charity, his poverty, his simplicity, his success in the art of writing
and his total failure in the art of living,--such kaleidoscopic elements
make a brief biography impossible.

The character of the man appears in a single incident.

Landing one day on the Continent with a flute, a spare shirt and a guinea as his sole outward
possessions, the guinea went for a feast and a game of cards at the
nearest inn, and the shirt to the first beggar that asked for it.

There remained only the flute, and with that Goldsmith fared forth confidently, like the gleeman
of old with his harp, delighted at seeing the world, utterly forgetful
of the fact that he had crossed the Channel in search of a medical
education.

 Peel had just declared his conversion to free trade and his intention to repeal
the Corn Law duties, when Disraeli rose and in behalf of the unconverted Tory protectionists
poured his fire into the face of the Prime Minister.]

Sir, I rise with some feeling of embarrassment to address the House at this stage of the debate,
as it is only since I have entered the House that I have had the advantage of reading her Majesty's
speech; and I had understood that the great question which now agitates the country was not
to be discussed on the present occasion.....I should have abstained from intruding myself on
the House at the present moment, had it not been for the peculiar tone of the right honorable
gentleman (Sir Robert Peel). I think that tone ought not to pass unnoticed. At the same time
I do not wish to conceal my opinions on the general subject. I am not one of the converts.
I am, perhaps, a member of a fallen party. To the opinions which I have expressed in this House
in favor of protection I adhere. They sent me to this House, and if I had relinquished them,
I should have relinquished my seat also. I must say that the tone of the right honorable gentleman
is hardly fair towards the House, while he stops discussion upon a subject on which he himself
has entered and given vent to his feelings with a fervency unusual to him. Sir, I admire a
minister who says he holds power to give effect to his own convictions. These are sentiments
that we must all applaud. Unfortunate will be the position of this country when a minister
pursues a line of policy adverse to the convictions which he himself entertains. But when we
come to a question of such high delicacy as the present, we may be permitted to ask ourselves
what are the circumstances which require one so able, and one so eminent, to enter upon the
vindication of himself, and to rise in this House, amid the cheers of his former opponents,
to place himself in a position of an apologetical character to those who were once of his own
party? I have no doubt that the right honorable gentleman has arrived at a conscientious conclusion
on this great subject. The right honorable gentleman says that it is not so much by force of
argument as by the cogency of observation that he has arrived at this conclusion. But, sir,
surely the observation which the right honorable gentleman has made might have been made when
he filled a post scarcely less considerable than that which he now occupies, and enjoyed power
scarcely less ample than that which he now wields in this House. I want to know how it is that
the right honorable gentleman, who certainly enjoys the full maturity of manhood, should not
have arrived at this opinion, which I deplore, although conscientious, at the moment when his
present government was formed! What, sir, are we to think of the eminent statesman who, having
served under four sovereigns; unable to complain of want of experience or royal confidence;
who, having been called on to steer the ship on so many occasions, and under such perilous
circumstances, has only during the last three years found it necessary entirely to change his
convictions on that important topic which must have presented itself for more than a quarter
of a century to his consideration?

Sir, I must say that such a minister may be conscientious, but that he is unfortunate. I will
say, also, that he ought to be the last man in the world to turn round and upbraid his party
in a tone of menace. Sir, there is a difficulty in finding a parallel to the position of the
right honorable gentleman in any part of history. The only parallel which I can find is an
incident in the late war in the Levant.....I remember when that great struggle was taking place,
when the existence of the Turkish empire was at stake, the late Sultan, a man of great energy
and fertile in resources, was determined to fit out an immense fleet to maintain his empire.
Accordingly a vast armament was collected. It consisted of some of the finest ships that were
ever built. The crews were picked men, the officers were the ablest that could be found, and
both officers and men were rewarded before they fought. There never was an armament which left
the Dardanelles similarly appointed since the days of Solyman the Great. The Sultan personally
witnessed the departure of the fleet; all the muftis prayed for the success of the expedition,
as all the muftis here prayed for the success of the last general election. Away went the fleet,
but what was the Sultan's consternation when the Lord High Admiral steered at once into the
enemy's port! Now, sir, the Lord High Admiral on that occasion was very much misrepresented.
He, too, was called a traitor, and he, too, vindicated himself. "True it is," said he, "I did
place myself at the head of this valiant armada; true it is that my sovereign embraced me;
true it is that all the muftis in the empire offered up prayers for my success; but I have
an objection to war. I see no use in prolonging the struggle, and the only reason I had for
accepting the command was that I might terminate the contest by betraying my master." ....

Well, now, the right honorable gentleman has turned round on us, and in a peroration, the elaborate
character of which remarkably contrasted with the garrulous confidence of all the doings of
his cabinet, the right honorable gentleman told us that he had been assured that a certain
power had made him minister, and that a certain power would prevent him from being a minister;
but that he protested against such an authority, and that he never would hold office by so
servile a tenure. Sir, no one can fill a position such as that of the right honorable gentleman
and give utterance to sentiments so magnanimous as his without reference to antecedents. And
that leads us to the consideration of that government by parties, which must never be lost
sight of in estimating the position of the right honorable gentleman. It is all very well for
the right honorable gentleman to say, "I am the First Minister"--and by the by, I think the
right honorable gentleman might as well adopt the phraseology of Walpole, and call himself
the sole minister, for his speech was rich in egoistic rhetoric--it is all very well for him
to speak of himself as the sole minister, for as all his cabinet voted against him, he is quite
right not to notice them. I repeat, it is all very well for the right honorable gentleman to
come forward to this table and say, "I am thinking of posterity, although certainly I am doing
on this side of the table the contrary to that which I counseled when I stood upon the other;
but my sentiments are magnanimous, my aim is heroic, and appealing to posterity, I care neither
for your cheers nor your taunts."

But, sir, we must ask ourselves, as members of the House of Commons, as the subjects of a popular
government--we must ask ourselves, what were the means, what the machinery, by which the right
honorable gentleman acquired his position, how he obtained power to turn round upon his supporters,
and to treat them with contempt and disdain? Sir, the right honorable gentleman has supported
a different policy for a number of years. Well do we remember on this side of the House--perhaps
not without a blush-- well do we remember the efforts which we made to raise him to the bench
on which he now sits. Who does not remember the "sacred cause of protection," the cause for
which sovereigns were thwarted, Parliaments dissolved, and a nation taken in? Delightful, indeed,
to have the right honorable gentleman entering into all his confidential details, when, to
use his courtly language, he "called" upon his sovereign. Sir, he called on his sovereign;
but would his sovereign have called on the right honorable baronet, if, in 1841, he had not
placed himself, as he said, at the head of the gentlemen of England--that well- known position,
to be preferred even to the confidence of sovereigns and courts? It is all very well for the
right honorable baronet to take this high-flying course, but I think myself, I say it with
great respect for gentlemen on this side of the House, and gentlemen on the other; I say it
without any wish to achieve a party triumph, for I believe I belong to a party which can triumph
no more, for we have nothing left on our side except the constituencies which we have betrayed;
but I do say my conception of a great statesman is of one who represents a great idea--an idea
which may lead him to power; an idea with which he may identify himself; an idea which he may
develop; an idea which he may and can impress on the mind and conscience of a nation. That,
sir, is my notion of what makes a man a great statesman. I do not care whether he be a manufacturer
or a manufacturer's son. That is a grand, that is indeed an heroic, position. Both are disciples
of progress; both perhaps may get a good place. The express from Columbia was due. It was almost
nine o'clock on Tuesday night, the 31st of August, 1886. It had been a hot day, sultry toward
night, and the loungers at the Summerville station were divided between
pitying and envying their neighbors on the excursion train.

In such weather, home seems either the most intolerable or the most
comfortable place in the world.

It had not rained for six weeks, and South Carolina panted.

There was a larger crowd than usual at the little station to see the Columbia excursionists come in.
 In your welfare we rejoice, Sons and brothers that have sent,
From isle and cape and continent, Produce of your field and flood, Mount and mine and primal
wood; Works of subtle brain and hand, And splendors of the morning land, Gifts from every British
zone; Britons, hold your own!

II

May we find, as ages run, The mother featured in the son; And may yours forever be That old
strength and constancy Which has made your fathers great In our ancient island state; And wherever
her flag fly, Glorying between sea and sky, Makes the might of Britain known, Britons, hold
your own!

