CAT AND MOUSE

                            BY RALPH WILLIAMS

                        Illustrated by van Dongen

     The Warden needed to have a certain very obnoxious pest
     eliminated ... and he knew just the pest-eradicator he needed....

The Harn first came to the Warden's attention through its effect on the game population of
an area in World 7 of the Warden's sector. A natural ecology was being maintained on World
7 as a control for experimental seedings of intelligent life-forms in other similar worlds.
How the Harn got there, the Warden never knew. In its free-moving larval state, the Harn was
a ticklike creature which might have sifted through a natural inter-dimensional rift; or it
might have come through as a hitchhiker on some legitimate traveler, possibly even the Warden
himself.

In any event, it was there now. Free of natural enemies and competition, it had expanded enormously.
So far, the effect in the control world was localized, but this would not be the case when
the Harn seeded. Prompt action was indicated.

The Warden's inclination and training was in the direction of avoiding direct intervention
in the ecology of the worlds under his jurisdiction, even in the field of predator control.
He considered introduction of natural enemies of the Harn from its own world, and decided against
it. That cure was as bad, if not worse, than the disease itself.

There was, however, in one adjacent world, a life-form not normally associated with the Harn;
but which analysis indicated would be inimical to it, and reasonably amenable to control.

It was worth trying, anyway.

       *       *       *       *       *

October 3rd, Ed Brown got up to the base cabin of his trap line with his winter's outfit.

He hung an N. C. Company calendar on the wall and started marking off the days.

October 8th, the hole into the other world opened.

In the meantime, of course, Ed had not been idle. All summer the cabin had stood empty. He
got his bedding, stove, and other cabin gear down from the cache and made the place livable.
The mice were thick, a good fur sign, but a nuisance otherwise. Down in the cellar hole, when
he went to clear it out for the new spud crop, he found burrowings everywhere.

Well, old Tom would take care of that in short order. Tom was a big, black, bobtailed cat eleven
years old who had lived with Ed since he was a kitten. Not having any feline companionship
to distract him, his only interest was hunting mice. Generally he killed a lot more than he
could eat, racking the surplus in neat piles beside the trail, on the doorstep, or on a slab
in the cellar. He was the best mouser in interior Alaska.

Ed propped the cellar hatch with a stick so old Tom could come and go as he pleased, and went
on about his chores, working with a methodical efficiency that matched Tom's and went with
his thinning gray hair and forty years in the woods. He dug the spuds he had planted that spring.
He made a swing around his beaver lakes, tallying the blankets in each house. He took the canoe
and moved supplies to his upper cabin. He harvested some fat mallards that had moved down on
the river with the coming of skim ice on the lakes. He bucked up firewood and stacked it to
move into camp with the first snow.

On the fifth morning, as he was going down to the boat landing with a pail for water, he found
the hole into the other world.

Ed had never seen a hole into another world, of course, nor even heard of such a thing. He
was as surprised as any one would naturally be to find one not fifty feet from their front door.

Still, his experience had been all in the direction of believing what his eyes told him. He
had seen a lot of strange things in his life, and one more didn't strain him too much. He stood
stockstill where he had first noticed the hole and studied it warily.

It was two steps off the trail to the left, right beside the old leaning birch, a rectangular
piece of scenery that did not fit. It looked to be, as nearly as he could judge, about man-size,
six by three. At the bottom it was easy enough to see where this world left off and that one
began. On the left side the two worlds matched pretty well, but on the right side there was
a niggerhead in this world, the moss-covered relic of a centuries old stump, while that world
continued level, so that the niggerhead was neatly sliced in two. Also, the vegetation was
different, mossy on this side, grassy on that.

On up around the hole, though, it was harder to tell. There was no clear-cut line, just the
difference in what you could see through it. In the other world, the ground seemed to fall
away, with low scrubby brush in the foreground. Then, a mile or so away, there were rising
hills with hardwood forests of some kind, still green with summer, covering them.

Ed stepped cautiously to one side. The view through the hole narrowed, as if it faced the trail
squarely. He edged around the old birch to get behind it, and from that side there was no hole,
just the same old Alaskan scenery, birch and rose bushes and spruce. From the front, though,
it was still there.

He cut an alder shoot about eight feet long, trimmed it, and poked it through the hole. It
went through easily enough. He prodded at the sod in the other world, digging up small tufts.
When he pulled the stick back, some of the other world dirt was on the sharp end. It looked
and smelled just about like any dirt.

Old Tom came stretching out into the morning sun and stalked over to investigate. After a careful
inspection of the hole he settled down with his paws tucked under him to watch. Ed took a flat
round can from his pocket, lined his lip frugally with snuff, and sat down on the up-ended
bucket to watch too. At the moment, that seemed the likeliest thing to do.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was nearly swarming time, the Harn had many things to preoccupy it, but it spared one unit
to watch the hole into the other world. So far, nothing much had happened. A large biped had
found the opening from the other side. It had been joined by a smaller quadruped; but neither
showed any indication yet of coming through. The sun was shining through the hole, a large
young yellow sun, and the air was crisp, with sharp interesting odors.

The biped ejected a thin squirt of brown liquid through the hole--venom of some sort, apparently.
The Harn hastily drew back out of range.

       *       *       *       *       *

The hole into the other world stayed there, as unobtrusively fixed as if it had been there
since the beginning of time. Nothing came through, and nothing moved in the other world but
leaves stirring now and then with a breeze, clouds drifting across the sky. Ed began to realize
it was getting late in the morning, and he had not yet had breakfast. He left old Tom to watch
the hole, got stiffly to his feet and went on down the trail to get the pail of water he had
started for. From the cabin door, he could still see the hole into the other world. He kept
one eye on it while he cooked breakfast.

As he was finishing his second cup of coffee, he noticed the view into the other world becoming
duller, dimming in a peculiar fashion. He left the dirty dishes and went over to look more
closely. What was happening, he found, was just that it was getting dark in the other world.
The effect was strange, much like looking out the door of a brightly lighted room at dusk.
The edges of the hole cast a very clearly marked shadow now, and outside this shaft of sunlight
the view faded, until a few yards away it was impossible to make out any detail.

Presently the stars came out. Ed was not an astronomer, but he had a woodsman's knowledge of
the sky. He could find nothing familiar in any of the stars he saw. In some way, that was more
unsettling than the hole itself had been.

After he had finished the dishes, he cut two gee-pole spruce, trimmed them, and stuck one on
each side of the hole. He got some thin thread he used to tie beaver snares and wove it back
and forth between the poles, rigging a tin can alarm. It seemed likely someone or something
had put the hole there, it had not just happened. If anything came through, Ed wanted to know
about it. Just to make extra sure, he got some number three traps and made a few blind sets
in front of the hole.

Then he went back to his chores. Whatever was going to happen with the hole would happen when
it happened, and winter was still coming.

He set some babiche to soak for mending his snowshoes. He ran the net he had set at the edge
of the eddy for late silvers and took out two fish. Old Tom had pretty well cleaned up the
mice in the cellar hole, but they were still burrowing around the sills of the lean-to. Ed
took a shovel and opened up a hole so Tom could get under the lean-to floor. He got out his
needles, palm, thread, and wax; and mended his winter moccasins.

Off and on, he checked the hole into the other world. There was nothing but the slow progression
of alien stars across the sky. Finally old Tom grew bored and left to investigate the hole
under the lean-to. Shortly there were scutterings and squeakings as evidence that he, too,
had got back to business.

       *       *       *       *       *

Toward evening, Ed got to wondering how a living creature would take transition into the other
world. He had no intention of trying it himself until he knew a lot more about it, but he thought
he might be able to scare up a surrogate. Out by the wood pile some live-traps were piled under
a spruce, from the time when Ed had been catching marten for the Fish and Wildlife to transplant.
One was still in pretty fair shape. He patched it up and set it among the cottonwoods at the
head of the bar, where there were some rabbit trails.

When he went to bed it was still dark in the other world. In answer to the question of "MELANION"
(in No. 5 p. 73.), it may be sufficient to refer him to the Spanish
editions with notes, viz. that of Pellicer in 1800; the 4th edition
of the Spanish Academy in 1819; and that of D. Diego Clemencin in
1833, where he will find the discrepancies he mentions pointed out.

In the first edition of 1605 there was another instance in the same chapter, which Cervantes
corrected in the edition of 1608, but overlooked the other two. It was one of those lapses,
quas incuria fudit, which great writers as well as small are subject
to.

Clemencin laughs at De los Rios for thinking it a chracteristic of great geniuses so to mistake;
and at the enthusiasm of some one else, who said that he preferred the Don Quixote with the
defects to the Don Quixote without them.


It did not get dark in the other world till about noon, that day; and about seven, when it
was dark in both worlds, Ed heard the jangle of the tin can alarm, followed by the snap of
one of the steel traps.

He took a flashlight and found a small hoofed animal, hardly bigger than old Tom, rearing and
bucking with a broken leg in the trap. It had sharp little spike horns, only a few inches long,
but mean. Ed got several painful jabs before he got the animal tied up and out of the trap.
He restrung the alarm, then took his catch into the cabin to examine.

It was herbivorous and adult, from the looks of its teeth and hoofs, though it only weighed
about fifteen pounds. As an approximation, Ed decided it was female. When he killed it and
opened it up, at first glance it looked reasonably familiar, on closer study less so.

The blood, anyway, was red; not blue or yellow or green; and the bones were bones, just odd-shaped.

Ed cut off a slice of heart and tossed it to old Tom. The cat sniffed it dubiously and then
decided he liked it. He meowed for more. Ed gave it to him and fried a small sliver of ham.
It smelled and tasted fine, but Ed contented himself with a single delicate nibble, pending
further developments. Anyway, it was beginning to look like a little exploration would be feasible.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Harn, also, was well-satisfied with the way things were going. It had been a strain to
pass up the juicy little quadruped in the cage, but the inhabitants of the other world seemed
shy, and the Harn did not wish to frighten them. At least, it knew now that life could come
through the hole, and the small herbivore it had herded through confirmed that passage in the
opposite direction was equally possible--plus a gratis demonstration of the other world's pitiful
defenses. At swarming time, the whole new world would be open to embryo Harn, as well as this
world it presently occupied.

It looked like a really notable swarming. The Harn budded three more planters on the forcing
stem, to be ready to take full advantage of it.

It got light in the other world at one in the morning that night. Ed had the days there pretty
well pegged now. They were roughly twenty-seven hours, of which about thirteen hours were dark.
Not too high a latitude, apparently, and probably late summer by the looks of the vegetation.

He got up a little before daylight and looked at the rabbit and old Tom. Both seemed to be
doing nicely. Old Tom was hungry for more otherworld meat. Ed gave it to him and made up a
light pack. After some thought, he took the .450 bear gun he used for back-up when guiding.
Whatever he ran into over there, the .450--a model 71 throwing a 400 grain slug at 2100 fps--should
handle it.

The first step through into the other world was a queasy one, but it turned out to be much
the same as any other step. The only difference was that now he was in the other world looking
back. From this side, the niggerhead at the threshold was sliced sharply, but it had been kicked
down a little when he came through, and what with shoving the cage through and pulling it back,
so that some clods of moss and dirt were scattered in the other world. For some reason, that
made Ed feel better, it seemed to make the joining of the two worlds a little more permanent.

Still, it had come sudden, and it might go sudden. Ed went back into his own world and got
an ax, a saw, more ammunition, salt, a heavy sleeping robe, a few other possibles. He brought
them through and piled them in the other world, covering them with a scrap of old tarp. He
cut a couple of poles, peeled them, and stuck them in the ground to mark the hole from this side.

Then he looked around.

He stood on the shoulder of a hill, in a game trail that ran down toward a stream below, in
what seemed to be a fairly recent burn. There were charred stumps, and the growth was small
stuff, with some saplings pushing up through. There was timber in the valley below, though,
and on the hills beyond, deciduous, somewhat like oak. South was where east had been in his
own world, and the sun seemed smaller, but brighter. The sky was a very dark blue. He seemed
lighter in this world, there was a spring in his step he had not known for twenty years. He
looked at his compass. It checked with the direction of the sun.

He studied the trail. It had seen a lot of use, but less in recent weeks. There were sharp
hoof-prints of the animal he had caught, larger hoof-prints, vague pad-marks of various sizes,
but nothing that looked human. The trail went under a charred tree trunk at a height that was
not comfortable for a man, and the spacing of the steps around the gnarled roots of an old
slump did not fit a man's stride.

He did not notice the Harn creature at all--which was understandable, it was well camouflaged.

He worked circumspectly down the trail, staying a little off it, studying tracks and droppings,
noticing evidences of browsing on the shrubs--mostly old--pausing to examine tufts of hair
and an occasional feather. Halfway down the slope he flushed a bird about ptarmigan-size, grayish
brown in color.

The trail was more marked where it went into the timber. It wound through the trees for a few
hundred yards and came out on a canoe-sized stream. Here it forked. One trail crossed the stream
and went up the hill on the other side, the other followed the stream up the valley.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Harn followed Ed's movements, observing carefully. It needed a specimen from the other
world, and this biped would serve nicely, but it might as well learn as much as possible about
him first. It could always pick him up some time before he returned to his own world. Just
to make sure, it sent a stinging unit to guard the entrance.

       *       *       *       *       *

All his life, except for a short period in France, Ed had been a hunter, never hunted. Still,
you don't grow old in the woods by jumping without looking. Coming into a new situation, he
was wary as an old wolf. There was a little shoulder right above the fork in the trail. He
stood there for several minutes, looking things over, and then went down and crossed the stream
at the next riffle, above the ford. By doing so, although he did not know it, he missed the
trap the Harn maintained at the ford for chance passers-by.

On the other side of the creek, the trail ran angling off downstream, skirted a small lake
hidden in the trees, climbed over another low shoulder and dropped into a second valley. As
Ed followed along it, he began to notice a few more signs of life--birds, small scurriers on
the ground and in tree tops--and this set him thinking. The country had a picked-over feel
to it, a hunted and trapped-out feel, worse where he had first come through, but still noticeable
here.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Harn did not like to cross water, it could, but it did not like to.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ed looked at the sun. It was getting down in the sky. If there was any activity at all around
here, the ford at dusk would be as likely a place as any to find it. He worked back along the
ridge to a point above where he judged the ford to be. The breeze was drawing up the valley,
but favoring the other side a little. He dropped down and crossed the stream a quarter mile
above the ford, climbed well above the trail and worked along the hillside until he was in
a position where he could watch both the ford and the fork in the trail. He squatted down against
a tree in a comfortable position, laid his gun across his knees, and rummaged in his pack for
the cold flapjacks, wrapped around slices of duck breast, which he had packed for lunch.

After he had finished eating he drank from his canteen--the water in this world might be good,
it might not, there was no point in taking chances till he could try it on the cat--and took
an economical chew of snuff. He settled back to wait.

The Harn had lost Ed after he crossed the creek--it used a fallen tree quite a way further
up for its own crossing--and did not pick him up again until just before he crossed back. Now,
however, he had been immobile for several minutes. This looked like about as good a time as
any to make the pickup. The Harn had a stinging unit just about positioned, and it had dispatched
a carrier to stand by.

After a while, sitting there, Ed began to feel uneasy. The timber was big here, and open underneath,
almost parklike. The nearest cover was fifty or sixty yards off to his left, a little tangle
of brush where a tree had fallen and let a shaft of sunlight through.

It looked possible, but it didn't feel quite right. Still, it was about the only place anything
big enough to bother him could hide. The feeling was getting stronger, the back hairs on Ed's
neck were starting to stand up now. Without visible movement, or even noticing himself that
he was doing it, he let awareness run over his body, checking the position and stiffness of
his legs--he had been sitting there quite a while--the balance of the gun across his knees,
the nearness of his thumb to the hammer.

Thoughtfully, still studying the patch of brush, he spat a thin stream over his left shoulder
at a pile of leaves a few feet away. 

Fetously, adv. Featly.

Jamieson's Dictionary, abridged 8vo. edition. Fettle, v. To put in
order, to repair or mend any thing that is broken or defective.

I
am inclined to consider it as from the same root as Feat,--viz. Sue
Got. fatt, apt, ready. As the drops splattered it, the pile of leaves erupted with a snuffling
hiss like an overloaded teakettle into a tornado of bucking, twisting activity.

Ed's reflexes were not quite as fast as they had been when he was young, but they were better
educated. Also, he was already keyed-up. Almost as it started, the flurry in the leaves stopped
with the roar of his rifle. Fired like that, the heavy gun just about took his hand off, but
he did not notice it at the moment. He came erect in a quick scramble, jacking in a fresh round
as he did so. The scene took on that strange timeless aspect it often does in moments of emergency,
with a man's whole being focused on the fleeting now--you know, in an academic sort of way,
that things are moving fast, you are moving fast yourself, but there seems plenty of time to
make decisions, to look things over and decide what has to be done, to move precisely, with
minimum effort and maximum effect.

Whatever the thing at his feet was, it was out of the picture now--it had not even twitched
after the heavy bullet tore through it. There was a stomping rush in the little thicket he
had been watching. Ed took two long quick steps to one side to clear a couple of trees, threw
up the gun and fired as something flashed across a thin spot in the brush. He heard the whack
of the bullet in flesh and fired again. Ordinarily he did not like to shoot at things he could
not see clearly, but this did not seem the time to be overly finicky. There was no further
movement in the brush.

He stood there several long moments, listening, and there was no further movement anywhere.
He eased the hammer down, fed in three rounds to replace those he had used, and walked slowly
back to the first thing he had shot.

At that range, the bullet had not opened up, but it had not needed to. It had practically exploded
the creature anyway--the .450 has two tons of striking energy at the muzzle. From what was
left, Ed deduced a smallish, rabbit-sized thing, smooth-skinned, muscular, many-legged, flattish,
mottled to camouflage perfectly in the leaves. There was a head at one end, mostly undamaged
since it had been at the end of a long muscular neck, with a pair of glazing beady eyes and
a surprisingly small mouth. When Ed pressed on the muscles at the base of the skull, the mouth
gaped roundly and a two-inch long spine slid smoothly out of an inconspicuous slot just below it.

At middling distances or better, Ed could still see as well as ever, but close up he needed
help. He got out his pocket magnifier and studied the spine. It looked hollow, grooved back
for a distance from the point. A drop of milky looking substance trembled on its tip.

Ed nodded thoughtfully to himself. This was what had made him uneasy, he was pretty sure. What
was the thing in the brush, then? Innocent bystander? He got stiffly to his feet, conscious
now of the ache in his wrist that had taken most of the recoil of the first shot, the torn
web between his right thumb and forefinger where the hammer spur had bitten in; and walked
over to the thicket.

       *       *       *       *       *

The thing in the brush was larger, quite a bit larger, and the bullets had not torn it up so
badly. It lay sprawled with three of its eight legs doubled under it, a bear-sized animal with
a gaping, cavernous, toothless mouth out of all proportion to the slender body which seemed
designed mainly as a frame for the muscular legs. It was not quite dead. As Ed came up it struggled
feebly to get up, but one of the heavy slugs had evidently hit the spine, or whatever carried
communications to the hindquarters. It fell back, shuddering convulsively, and suddenly regurgitated
a small, furry animal.

Ed stepped back quickly to bring his rifle to bear, but the newest arrival was obviously already
dead.

He turned his attention back to the larger animal. It, too, was dead now. There was an obvious
family resemblance to the smaller one he had shot in the leaves. Both were smooth-skinned,
many-legged, and now that he looked closely he could see this one had two mouths, a small one
just under the nostrils, purse-lipped and tiny in its huge face but quite like that of the
other creature. Neither looked even remotely like anything he had ever seen before.

He laid down his rifle and took out his knife.

Ten minutes later, he knew quite a bit about the thing, but what he knew did not make much
sense. In the first place, its blood was green, a yellowish pussy green. In the second place,
the larger mouth, complete with jaws and impressive musculature, opened not into a digestive
system, but into a large closed pouch which comprised most of the animal's torso. There was
no proper digestive system at all, only a rudimentary gut, heavily laced with blood vessels,
terminating at one end in the small second mouth, at the other in an even smaller anus. Otherwise,
the thing had no insides except a good pair of lungs and a stout heart--none at all. Bone,
muscle, lung, heart--plus the ridiculously inadequate gut--that was it.

What about the small, furry, animal then; the one the other had been carrying in its pouch?
There was nothing much out-of-the-way about it--a feline sort of carnivore, something like
a marten. The fur looked interesting, and he skinned it out, casing the hide. On the left ham,
the skin was punctured and there was a swollen, bluish area--about the sort of wound that would
be made by the fang of the first thing he had shot. Ed squatted back on his heels, studying
it and putting two and two together. What two and two made was pretty hard to believe, but
it fitted the evidence.

He wiped his knife carefully on the grass, put it back in its sheath, and got to his feet.
Suddenly, the feeling that he was not alone recurred. He looked quickly around.

Back where he had shot the first thing, a man in forest-green whipcord trousers and jacket
was leaning over, hands on knees, looking at the remains. The man looked up and met Ed's eyes.
He nodded casually and walked over to the second thing, prodded it with his toe. After a long
moment he nodded again to Ed, smiled briefly, and winked out.

Ed stared at the empty air where the other man had been, mouth open. It was just a little too
much. A lot of things had happened to him in the last few days, he had been able to take most
of them more or less as they came along, but after all, he wasn't a chicken any more, he was
pushing sixty, and there is a limit to what a man should have to put up with at that age. The
thought of his snug cabin, with a good fire going, moosemeat bubbling in the pot, the gas lantern
hissing, and the bottle of Hudson's Bay rum he had tucked under the eaves against just such
an occasion as this, was suddenly very appealing.

Besides, it was getting late, and he didn't think he cared to be stumbling around this world
in the dark.

He elbowed his pack up, hooked the left shoulder strap, and headed for home, staying off the
trail in ordinary caution and watching his footing, but moving pretty fast just the same.

Actually, he need not have been so careful.

The Harn had been surprised and shocked by the explosive violence of the man's reaction to
a routine harvesting maneuver. It was a relatively young Harn, but it retained memories of
its own world, where there were also nasty, violent things which killed Harn. It was not pleasant
to think that it might have evoked some such monster in this hitherto peaceful place.

Then, to top that, there had been the sudden appearance of the Warden. The Harn, of course,
saw the Warden not as a man, but in its true aspect, which was not at all friendly.

All in all, this did not seem the moment to start any new adventures. The Harn pulled in all
its mobile units, including the stinger it had left at the hole into the other world. He could not
remember, and still he could not entirely forget.

       He felt that help would come to him if he sought it, and yet he could
hardly tell how to seek it.

Moreover, by degrees the blue eyes--it seemed as if their color, their great blueness, had some
fearful power--began pouring into him a more hideous pleasure.

It was the ecstasy of great pain, becoming a delight, the ecstasy of being beyond all hope and
of being thus enabled to look with scorn upon the author of hope.

 For an
old-timer like himself, things weren't too hot in this world. Fur didn't bring much of a price
any more, and he couldn't get it in as he had when he was younger. His wants were simple, but
there was a certain rock-bottom minimum he had to have. Too, the winters were starting to bother
him a little, the arthritis in his hands was getting worse every year, times he hardly had
the strength in his left hand, which was the worst, to hold an ax. Another five, ten, years
and it would be the Pioneers' Home for him--if he did not get stove up or sick sooner and die
right here in the cabin, too helpless to cut wood for the fire. He had helped bury enough others,
bed and all when they didn't come down the river at breakup and somebody had to go up and look
for them, to know it was possible.

The other world was milder, it had game and fur--good fur, too, from the looks of it, something
new that could lick any mutation or synthetic on the market, and the income tax had still left
a few fellows who could pay through the nose to see their women look nice.

And, the country was new. He'd never thought he'd have a crack at a new country again, a new,
good country. Often, he'd thought how lucky people had been who were born a hundred and fifty
years ago, moving into an easy, rich country like the Ohio or Kentucky when it was new, instead
of the bitter North.

The Harn would be a nuisance--Ed did not think of it as the Harn, of course, but just as "they"--but
he supposed he could find a way to clean them out. A man generally could, if varmints got troublesome
enough.

And the man in forest-green whipcord, well, he could have been just an hallucination. Ed did
not really believe in hallucinations, but he had heard about them, and there was always a first
time.

Ed sighed, looked at the clock, measured the bottle with his eye--still better than three quarters
full.

All in all, he guessed, he'd leave the door into the other world open.

He put old Tom out and went to bed.

       *       *       *       *       *

The first order of business seemed to be to get better acquainted with the Harn, and first
thing in the morning he set about it. He took the rabbit out of the live box and tethered it
in a spot in the other world close to the hole, where raw earth had been exposed by a big blowdown,
sweeping the ground afterward to clear it of tracks.

Getting better acquainted with the Harn, though, did not mean he had to have it come in and
crawl in bed with him.

Before going to bed the night before, he had set half a can of snuff to steep in some water.
He loaded a bug gun with this and sprayed the ground around the hole into the other world.
From the reaction yesterday, he judged the stinging units did not like tobacco juice, and this
should discourage them from coming through.

He checked his bear snares and found three in good enough shape to satisfy him--the large Harn
beast, he suspected, would be about like a grizzly to hold. Three would hardly be enough for
a serious trapping program. Ed made his own snares from old aircraft control cable, using a
lock of his own devising which slid smoothly and cinched down tight and permanently. He got
out his roll of wire and box of locks and started making up some more, sitting where he could
watch the rabbit he had staked out.

By the middle of the afternoon the snares were done, but there had been no action with the
rabbit, nor was there for the rest of the day.

In the morning, though, it was gone. There were three new sets of tracks in the bare spot--two
smaller ones, either of which would have fitted the stinging unit, and what looked like a carrier's.
The action was clear enough. The small things had prowled around the rabbit for some time,
stopping frequently as if uncertain and suspicious. Finally, one had moved in, with a little
flurry of action when it met the rabbit. Then it had moved back and squatted again.

The big tracks came directly to the rabbit and went right out again. They were heavy enough
to be clear in the grass beyond the bare spot.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ed went back to the cabin and rummaged till he found a pair of snakeproof pants a Stateside
sport had once given him--heavy duck with an interlining of woven wire. They were heavy and
uncomfortable to wear, and about as useless as wings on a pig in Alaska, where there are no
snakes; but they had been brand-new and expensive when given to him, and he had put them away,
thinking vaguely he might find a use for them some day. It looked like that day might be now.

He slipped them on, took his rifle and hunting pack, and set out to follow the animal that
had taken the rabbit.

The trail showed well in the morning dew, going straight away along the hillside as if the
thing were headed some place definite. Ed followed along for a quarter mile or so, then found
himself on a fairly well beaten path, which presently joined another, and then another, till
it was a definitely well used trail. It began to look to him like the thing might have a den
of some sort, and he might be getting pretty close to it. He left the trail and climbed up
into a lone tall tree, fire-scorched but still struggling for life. From there, he could follow
the trail pretty well with his glasses for a couple of hundred yards before he lost it. Finally,
he settled on a spot under an old burnt stump as a likely spot for the den.

He focused the glasses carefully and after a few minutes saw a flash of movement there, as
if something had slipped in or out. Nothing else happened for about an hour. Then the grass
along one of the trails began to wave and a large beast, similar to the one he had shot, trotted
into sight. It slipped in under the stump and disappeared.

For the rest of the morning, nothing went in or out.

There was a very good reason for this, and Ed was it.

       *       *       *       *       *

All night and day after he shot the stinging unit and the carrier unit, the Harn had stayed
in its nest. By the second evening, it was getting hungry. It ventured out and found a few
morsels, but the organized hunting network it ordinarily maintained had been disrupted, it
had lost track of things, and the pickings were poor. Then it stumbled on the rabbit Ed had
staked out.

Its first impulse was to leave the rabbit strictly alone. In spite of its early promise, the
other world had so far given nothing but trouble. On the other hand, the rabbit was meat, and
very good meat, by the smell and looks of it....

The Harn kept its observation unit prowling irresolutely around the target for half the night
before it finally gave in to appetite and sent in a stinger to finish the rabbit off, a carrier
to pick it up.

It was still uneasy about this when it noticed Ed near the nest the next morning, confirming
its fears. It promptly broke up the net it had been re-establishing and pulled all units back
in. Maybe if it left him strictly alone, he might still go on about his business, whatever
that was, and let the Harn get back to its harvesting.

       *       *       *       *       *

By noon, Ed was getting pretty stiff sitting in the tree. He climbed down and eased over toward
the stump, watching where he set his feet. He was pretty sure the snakeproof pants would stop
the stingers, but he saw no point in putting them to the test until he had to.

About fifty yards away, he got a good view, and it did look like there might be a sizable hole
under the stump. He studied it carefully with the glasses. There was a smooth-beaten mound
in front, and exposed roots were worn slick.

As he got closer, he noticed an unpleasant smell, and near the mouth of the den he got a sudden
whiff that almost gagged him--a sour, acid, carrion stink like a buzzard's nest. He moved back
a little. The hole was wide and fairly high, two or three feet, but too dark to see back into.
Still, he had a sense of something stirring there not too far back.

Ed had considerable respect for caves and dens with unseen occupants--he had once helped carry
in the bodies of two men who had poked a stick into a spring grizzly's den. At the same time,
he wanted pretty badly to know what was in there. He suspected there was a good deal more than
what he had already seen.

The bug gun loaded with tobacco juice was in his pack, and a flashlight, a small light one
designed for a lady's purse which he always carried when away from camp. He got them out and
leaned his rifle against a root sticking out just to the left of the den. Taking the bug gun
in his left hand and the flashlight in his right, he stooped over to shine the light in, keeping
as well clear of the entrance as possible.

All in all, he must have got about a five-second look, which is a lot longer than it sounds
when things are happening.

His first impression was a jumble--eyes, scurrying movement, and bulk. Then things started
to shape up. About ten feet back from the entrance was a huge, flattish, naked, scabrous bulk,
pimpled with finger-sized teats. Clustered around and behind this were a tangle of slinging
units, carrier units, observation units. Some had their mouths fixed to teats.

For a long second or two the scene stayed frozen.

Then the front edge of the bulk split and began to gape. Ed found himself looking down a manhole-sized
gullet into a shallow puddle of slime with bits of bone sticking up here and there. Toward
the near end a soggy mass of fur that might have been the rabbit seemed to be visibly melting
down. At the same moment, the tangle of lesser monsters sorted themselves out and a wave of
stingers came boiling out at him.

Ed dropped the flashlight, gave two mighty pumps of the bug gun, and jumped clear of the entrance.
For a moment, the den mouth boiled with stingers, hissing and bucking in agony. Ed sprayed
them heavily again, snatched up his rifle, and ran, looking back over his shoulder. The stingers
showed no inclination to follow, though, the tobacco juice seemed to be keeping them well occupied
for the moment.