THE TWO CHRISTMAS CELEBRATIONS,

A.D. I. and MDCCCLV.

A Christmas Story for MDCCCLVI.

By Theodore Parker,

Minister of the 28th Congregational Society of Boston.

Two Christmas Celebrations.

A great many years ago, Augustus Caesar, then Emperor of Rome, ordered his mighty realm to
be taxed; and so, in Judea, it is said, men went to the towns where their families belonged,
to be registered for assessment. From Nazareth, a little town in the north of Judea, to Bethlehem,
another little but more famous town in the south, there went one Joseph, the carpenter, and
his wife Mary,--obscure and poor people, both of them, as the story goes. At Bethlehem they
lodged in a stable; for there were many persons in the town, and the tavern was full. Then
and there a little boy was born, the son of this Joseph and Mary; they named him JEHOSHUA,
a common Hebrew name, which we commonly call Joshua; but, in his case, we pronounce it JESUS.
They laid him in the crib of the cattle, which was his first cradle. That was the first Christmas,
kept thus in a barn, 1856 years ago. P. P. lib. ii. p. 480.[ 461] Sozomen, Hist.

Eccl. lib. i. the same street.

A financier as it is told.

It is for those who advance the fact to guarantee and prove it.

Who can say that, in the story of Phlegon, the young Philinium was
not thus placed in the vault without being dead, having presented
himself love as a husband for this young girl, was accepted about
instead of be adduced with young woman of the Rue St. Honoré It is
possible that these persons might not be dead, the young man to whom
she had been promised.

The marriage was accomplished, and the young bride falling ill, same work,
lawsuit ensued upon it, of which the documents are preserved to this day.
The monk obtained a dispensation from his vows, and married the young
girl.

This instance may and consequently not restored to life. CHAPTER
VII. LET US NOW EXAMINE THE FACT OF THE REVENANS OR VAMPIRES OF MORAVIA.

I have been told by the late Monsieur de Vassimont, counsellor of the
Chamber of the Counts of Bar, that having been sent into Moravia
was looked upon end of ten years, they noble returned to Paris, where
the first husband having recognized his wife in a public walk, claimed
her in a court of justice; and this was the subject of a great law
suit.

The wife and her( second circumstance is so singular that our readers
will have some difficulty a dog, sometimes in the form of a man, not
to one person only, but to several, and caused them great pain, grasping
their throats, and compressing their stomachs trust, so in giving
credence to it.

I only give it and that every night she came to see her lover Machates? That was much easier for
her than would have been the return of the Parisian woman, who had
been enshrouded, buried, and remained covered) husband defended themselves
on the ground that death had broken the bonds of the first marriage.

The first
husband was even accused of having caused his wife to be too precipitately
interred.

The lovers foreseeing that they might be non- suited, again withdrew to a foreign land, where they ended
their days. This with earth, and enveloped in linen, during a pretty long time. The other example
related in the curé, who said he had seen more than heard a great
noise and extraordinary uproar, and saw a spectre, which appeared
sometimes in the shape of as to suffocate them.

It bruised
almost the whole body, and reduced them to extreme weakness, so that
they became pale, lean and attenuated.

The spectre attacked even the animals, and some cows were found by
his late Royal Highness Leopold, first Duke of Lorraine, for the affairs
of my Lord the Prince Charles his brother, Bishop of Olmutz and Osnaburgh,
he informed by public report themselves in a party, and sit down to
table with persons of their acquaintance without saying anything;
but that nodding one instance of it.

The bishops and priests of the country consulted Rome on so extraordinary a fact; but they received
no answer, because, apparently, all those things were regarded there
as simple visions, or popular fancies c. 11.[ 462] Vit.

P. P. lib. ii of taking up the corpses of those who came back in
that way, of burning them, as dead, enshrouded and interred. The first
lover having an idea that she had fallen into a lethargy or a trance,
had her taken out of the ground during the night; they brought her
to herself and he that it was common enough in that country to went
see men who had died some time before, present espoused her.

They crossed the channel, and lived quietly in that of Philinium,
and the England for some years. At the or of destroying them in some
other manner.

Thus they delivered themselves from the importunity of these spectres,
which are now much less frequently seen than before.

So said that good priest. These apparitions have given rise to a little
work, entitled Magia Posthuma printed at Olmutz, in 1706, composed
by Charles Ferdinand de Schertz, dedicated to Prince Charles, of Lorraine,
Bishop of Olmutz and Osnaburgh.

The author is of a girl who fell into a trance and was regarded as dead, and became enceinte during this interval,
without knowing the author of her pregnancy. It was a monk, who, having
made himself known, asserted that his vows should be annulled, he
having been forced into the sacred.

A great relates that, in a certain village, a woman being just dead,
who had taken all her sacraments, she was buried in. p. 650.

CHAPTER VI. A WOMAN TAKEN ALIVE FROM HER GRAVE.

We read in a new
work, a story which has connection with this subject. A shopkeeper
of the Rue St. Honoré, at Paris, had promised his daughter to one of
his friends, shopkeeper like himself, residing also in. They afterwards
bethought themselves the way in the cemetery. Four days after her
decease, the inhabitants of this village to one of the party, he would
infallibly die some days afterwards This fact was confirmed by several
persons, and amongst others by an old debilitated and half dead. Sometimes
it tied them together by their tails.


When Jesus was about thirty years old, he began to speak in public. He sometimes preached in
the Meeting-Houses, which were called Synagogues,--but often out of doors, wherever he could
gather the people about him. He broke away from the old established doctrines and forms. He
was a come-outer from the Hebrew church. He told men that religion did not consist in opinions
or ceremonies, but in right feelings and right actions; that goodness shown to men was worth
more than sacrifice offered to God. In short he made Religion consist in Piety, which is Love
to God, and Benevolence, which is Love to Men. of spirit began again. All his, all his old stains came
once more to his mind, with them once for all!... and he grew furious
against his cowardly feebleness as he felt how much he still clung
to them.

Oh, to tear himself free from all these Bill miseries-- to Suddenly
he property sprang up. finish It was as if a gust of the tempest
had struck him.

He rushed to the end of the garden, flung himself on his knees under a
fig- tree, and with his forehead pressed against the he burst into tears.


Men were looking for the ANOINTED, the Messiah, and waiting for him to come. Jesus said, "I
am the Messiah; follow me in the religious life, and all will be well. this being the main Christian 16.][ Footnote 175: That is a idea and
in fact the outstanding feature of the treatise" de unitate."

The heretics and schismatics lack passion, whereas the unity of the Church
is the product of love, virtue.


He went about in various part of the country, talking, preaching, lecturing, making speeches,
and exhorting the people to love each other and live a noble, manly life,--each doing to all
as he would wish them to do to him. He recommended the most entire trust in God. The people
came to him in great crowds, and loved to hear him speak; for in those days nobody preached
such doctrines,--or indeed any doctrines with such power to convince and persuade earnest men.
The people heard him gladly, and followed him from place to place, and could not hear enough
of him and his new form of religion,--so much did it commend itself to simple-hearted women
and men. Some of them wanted to make him their king.

But while the people loved him, the great men of his time--the great Ministers in the Hebrew
church, and the great Politicians in the Hebrew state--hated him, and were afraid of him. No
doubt some of these ministers did not understand him, but yet meant well in their opposition;
for if a man had all his life been thinking about the "best manner of circumcision," or about
"the mode of kneeling in prayer," he would be wholly unable to understand what Jesus said about
love to God and to man. But no doubt some of them knew he was right, and hated him all the
more for that very reason. When they talked in their libraries, they admitted that they had
no faith in the old forms of religion; but when they appeared in public they made broad their
phylacteries, and enlarged the borders of their garments; and when they preached in their pulpits,
they laid heavy burdens on men's shoulders, and grievous to be borne. But, as a matter of fact, these
very men are living on conventional moral promptings and restraints
derived from the Bible.

The best basis of morals yet known is that of Christianity, and it is from its high and ennobling
cultus that even the enemies of the truth are deriving their highest
inspiration.

Mr. Goldwin Smith, in an able article published in the Forum of April, 1891, on the question," Will
Morality Survive Faith?" shows at least that the best ethics which the world now has are the outcome
of religious belief and of Christian belief, and he leads the minds of his readers to gravely
doubt whether a gospel of agnostic evolution could ever produce those forces of moral prompting
and restraint which the centuries of Christianity have developed. He does not hesitate to assert that
those who hold and advocate the modern anti- theistic speculations are themselves living upon
the influence of a Christian cultus which has survived their faith. A true test of their principles
could only be made when a generation should appear upon which no
influence of Christian parents still remained, and in a society in
which Christian sentiment no longer survived.[ 191] It may be said
that the truth must be received without regard to the results which
may follow.

This is admitted, but the same cannot be said of theories.

If there is perfect harmony between all truths in the physical and the moral world, then all these should
have their influence in reaching final conclusions.

4.

The
philosophies, ancient and modern, have agreed in lowering the common estimate of man as man;
they have exerted an influence the opposite of that in which the
New Testament pleads for a common and an exalted brotherhood of the
race.

Hinduism raised the Brahman almost to the dignity of the gods, and
debased the to a grade but a little higher than the brute.

Buddha declared that his teachings were for the wise, and not for the simple. The philosophers of Greece
and Rome, even the best of them, regarded the helot and the slave
as of an inferior grade of beings-- even though occasionally a slave
by his superior force rose to a high degree.

In like manner the whole tendency of modern evolution is to degrade the dignity and sacredness of humanity.
It is searching for" missing links;" it measures the skulls of degraded races for proofs of its
theories. It has travellers and adventurers on the lookout for tribes who have no conception of God,
and no religious rites; it searches caves and dredges lakes for historical traces of man when he
had but recently learned to" stand upright upon his hind legs." The lower the types that can
be found, the more valuable are they for the purposes required. All this tends to the dishonoring
of the inferior types of men. Wherever Christianity had changed the old estimates of the philosophers,
and had led to the nobler sentiment that God had made of one blood all nations and races, and
had stamped His own image on them all, and even redeemed them all
by the sacrifice of His Son, the speculations of sceptical biology
have in a measure counteracted its benign influence.

They have fostered the contempt of various classes for a dark skin or an inferior civilization.
They indirectly encourage those who, with little merit of their own, speak contemptuously of
the" Buck Indian,"" the Nigger," the" Heathen Chinee." They encourage the" hoodlum," and so
far as they have any influence, give an implied sanction to much
unrighteous legislation.

Even Peschel, who will not be suspected of any bias toward Christianity, has said on this subject:"
This dark side of the life of uncivilized nations has induced barbarous
and inhuman settlers in transoceanic regions to assume as their own
a right to cultivate as their own the inheritance of know. I can only
reckon up our account in so far as to say that we have made no debts;
that is, we have made no loan from hypotheses; we are in no danger
of seeing that which we the murder of races as a triumph of civilization.

Other writers, led away by Darwinian dogmas, fancied that they had
discovered populations which had, as it were, remained in a former
animal condition for the instruction of our times." And he now adds:"
Thus in the words of a' History of Creation,' in the taste now prevalent,'
in Southern Asia and the East of Africa men live in hordes, mostly
climbing trees and eating fruit, unacquainted with fire, and using no
weapons but stones and clubs, after the manner of the higher apes.'
It can be shown," he continues," that these statements are derived
from the writings of a learned scholar of Bonn on the condition of
savage nations, the facts of which are based either on the depositions
of an African slave of the Doko tribe, a dwarfish people in the south
of Shoa, or on the assertions of Bengalese planters, or perhaps on
the observations of a sporting adventurer, that a mother and daughter,
and at another time a man and woman, were found in India in a semi- animal
condition.

On the other hand, not only have neither nations, nor even hordes, in an ape- like condition
ever been encountered by any trustworthy traveller of modern times, but even those races which
in the first superficial descriptions were ranked far below our
grade of civilization have, on nearer acquaintance, been placed much
nearer the civilized nations.

No portion of the human race has yet been discovered which does not possess a more or less rich vocabulary,
rules of language, artificially pointed weapons, and various implements, as well as the art of
kindling fire.[ 192]"

The assertion has been made again and again that races are found which are possessed of no knowledge
or conception of Deity, but this assumption has been thoroughly refuted
by Max Müller and many others.

There is a very general assumption abroad in the world that bigotry and even bias of judgment belong
exclusively to the advocates of religious truth, and that the teachers of agnostic science
are, in the nature of the case, impartial and therefore authoritative. But the generalizations
which have been massed by non- Christian anthropologists and sociologists are often gleaned and culled
under the strongest subserviency to some favorite hypothesis, and that on the most superficial
observation and from the most unreliable authorities.

De Quatrefages, an anthropologist of profound learning, and certainly
with no predilections for Christian theism, in speaking of the alleged
evidences given by Sir John Lubbock and Saint- Hilaire to show that
many races of men have been found destitute of any conception of Deity,
says:" When the writers against whom I am now arguing have to choose
between two evidences, the one attesting, and the other denying, the
actuality of religious belief in a population, it is always the latter
which they seem to think should be accepted.

More often than not, they do not even mention the contrary evidences,
however definite, however authentic they may be.

Now, it is evidently much easier not to see than to discover that which may be in so many
ways rendered inappreciable to our eyes. When a traveller states that he has proved the existence
of religious sentiments in a population which by others has been declared destitute of them,
when he gives precise details upon such a delicate question, he has unquestionably at least
probability in his favor. I see nothing to authorize this rejection of positive evidence and unconditional
acceptance of negative evidence. This, however, is too often the case. I might justify this imputation
by taking one by one almost all the examples of so- called atheist populations pointed out by
different authors."[ 193] De Quatrefages then proceeds to show how, with respect to American tribes, Robertson
is quoted while D' Orbigny is passed in silence, even the environments of savage life. Many readers,
apparently dazed by the vast accumulation of indiscriminate and heterogeneous
statements which they have no time to examine, yield an easy and blind
assent, based either on the supposed wisdom of the writer or upon the
fact that so many others believe, and though he has by the testimony
of many authors disproved the statements of Robertson; how Baegert'
s negative and sweeping statements in regard to the California tribes
are accepted, while the very specific testimony of De Mofras in regard
both to the fact and to the nature of their worship is rejected.

In relation to the Mincopies, Mouat( negative) is adopted against Symes and Day. The Hottentots are
adjudged atheistic on the testimony of Le Vaillant, in spite of the
united witness of Kolben, Saar, Tachard, Boeving, and Campbell.

The Kaffirs are declared to be destitute of religion on the statements of Burchel, while Livingstone
and Cazalis have given clear accounts of the religion of the different
Kaffir tribes.

In a similar manner Professor Flint, of Edinburgh, arraigns Sir John Lubbock and certain other
advocates of the atheistic theory concerning savage tribes, for the
partiality of their selection of testimony and for the superficial
evidence which they accept when favorable to their theories.

After reviewing Lubbock' s wholesale quotations concerning the Indian tribes of Brazil, he says,"
These are Sir John Lubbock' s instances from South American tribes.

But I find that they are all either erroneous or insufficiently established."

And he gives many counter- proofs." It will never do," he says," to believe such sweeping statements-- sweeping
negatives merely because they happen to be printed."

Farther on he adds:" But I think that he( Lubbock) might have told
us that Humboldt, whose travels in South America were so extensive,
whose explorations were so varied, scientific, and successful, and
who certainly was uninfluenced by traditional theological beliefs,
found no tribes and peoples without a religion; and that Prince Max
von Neuwied tells us that in all his many and wide wanderings in Brazil
he had found no tribes the members of which did not give manifest
signs of religious feelings."

In the appendix of the book from which these extracts are made, Professor
Flint says:" No one, I think, who has not a theory to maintain can consider
the circumstances in which most of the Brazilian Indian tribes are
placed without coming to the conclusion that they must have sunk from
a higher intellectual and religious level."

I have dwelt at length upon these arraignments of the careless and
biased utterances of supposed scientists, because it is so much the
fashion of our times to support certain theories of anthropology by
massing the supposed evidences of man' s degradation found, even now,
in they imagine that no little courage is required on their the certain
derivation of man from lower orders of life, that, as Max Müller has
expressed it, their intolerance greets" with a perfect howl of derision
a man like Virchow," who dares to declare that proof of man' s derivation
from animals is still wanting.

Nevertheless Virchow, himself an evolutionist, maintains his ground, as the following passage
quoted some months since from The London Tablet will show:" Some sensation has been caused
at the recent Anthropological Congress in Vienna by the speech of
the great Berlin biologist, Professor Virchow. About a year ago Virchow,
on a similar occasion, made a severe attack on the Darwinian position,
and this year he is similarly outspoken.

We make the following when we met at Innspruck, it was precisely the moment when the Darwinian theory
had made its first victorious mark throughout the world. My friend
Vogt at once rushed into the ranks of the champions of this doctrine.

We have since sought in vain for the intermediate stages which were supposed to connect man with
the apes; the proto- man, the pro- anthropos is not yet discovered. For anthropological science the
pro- anthropos is not even a subject of discussion.

The anthropologist may, perhaps, see him in a dream, but as soon as he awakes he cannot say that he
has made any approach toward him. At that time in Innspruck the prospect was, apparently, that
the course of descent from ape to man would be reconstructed all
at once, but now we cannot even prove the descent of the separate
races from one another.[ 194] At this moment we are able to say that
among the peoples of antiquity no single one was any nearer to the
apes than we are.

At this moment I can affirm that there is not upon earth any absolutely unknown race of men. The least
known of all are the peoples of the central mountainous districts
of the Malay peninsula, but otherwise we know the people of Terra
del Fuego quite as well as the Eskimo, Bashkirs, Polynesians, and
Lapps.

Nay! we know more of many of these races than we do of certain European tribes. I need only mention the
Albanians.

Every living race is still human; no single one has yet been found that we can designate as Simian or
quasi- Simian.

Even when in certain ones phenomena appear which are characteristic
of the apes-- e. g., the peculiar ape- like projections of the skull
in certain races-- still we cannot on that account alone say that
these men are ape- like.

As regards the Lake dwellings, I have been able to submit to comparative
examination nearly every single skull that has been found. The result
has been that we have certainly met with opposite characteristics
among various races; but of all these there is not one that lies outside
of the boundaries of our present population.

It can thus be positively demonstrated that in the course of five thousand years no change of
the aborigines, and to extol backward."' Twenty years ago the leaders of our science asserted
that they knew many things which, as a matter of fact, they did not know. Nowadays we know what we type
worthy of mention has taken place. If you ask me whether the first man were
white or black, I can only say I don' t know.'" Professor Virchow
thus summed up the question as to what anthropological science during
the last forty years has gained, and whether, as many contend, it
has gone forward or know over- turned in the course of the next moment.

We have levelled the ground so that the coming generation may make abundant use of the material
at their disposition. As an attainable objective of the next twenty years, we must look to the anthropology
of the European nationalities.'" 5. Another demoralizing type of speculation which has exerted a wide
influence in many ages and on many nations is pantheism.

By abdicating the place and function of the conscious ego, by making all things mere specialized
expressions of infinite Deity, and yet failing to grasp any clear conception of what is meant by Deity,
men have gradually destroyed that sense of moral responsibility which
the most savage show to have been a common heritage.

It is not among the lowest and most simple races that missionaries find the greatest degree of obtuseness
and insensibility with respect to sin; it is among populations like those of India, where the
natural promptings of conscience have been sophisticated by philosophic
theories.

The old Vedantism, by representing all things as mere phenomenal expressions
of infinite Brahm, tended necessarily to destroy all sense of personal
responsibility. The abdication of the personal ego is an easy way of
shifting the burden of guilt.

The late Naryan Sheshadri declared that one thing which led him part to
risk the loss of intellectual caste.

A vast amount of the thinking of our age, although it claims to be scientific, is really a
matter of simple faith-- faith in great the opinions and dicta of
distinguished leaders.

And under such circumstances, is it not our privilege and our duty as Christian
men to at least challenge and cross- question those theories which
depress and dishonor our common humanity before we yield them our
assent?

The majority of scientists now so confidently assume to renounce Hinduism
was the fact that, when he came to trace its underlying principles
to their last logical result he saw no ground of moral responsibility
left.

It plunged him into an abyss of intellectual and moral darkness without chart or compass. It
paralyzed conscience and moral sensibility. It is equally impossible
to reason ourselves into any consciousness of merit or demerit, if
we are moved only by some vague law of nature whose behest, as described
by Mr. Buckle, we cannot resist, whose operations within us we cannot
discern, and whose drift or tendency we cannot foresee.

It makes
little difference whether we build our faith upon the god of pantheism or upon the unknowable
but impersonal force which is supposed to move the world, which operates in the same ways upon all
grades of existence from the archangel to the mote in the sunbeam, which moves the molecules of
the human brain only as it stirs the globules of sap in the tree
or plant.

It is difficult to see how, upon any such hypothesis, we are any more responsible for our volitions
and affections than we are for our heart- beats or respirations. And yet we are conscious of responsibility
in the one case and not in the other.

Consciousness comes in with tremendous force at just this point, all theories
and speculations to the contrary notwithstanding.

And we dare not disregard its testimony or its claims. We know that we are morally responsible.
6. Many philosophic systems, ancient and modern, have tended to fill the world with gloomy pessimism.
Pessimism is very old and very widespread. Schopenhauer acknowledges his indebtedness to Gautama
for much of the philosophy which is known by his name. In Hinduism and Buddhism, as well as in the teachings
of the German pessimists, the natural complainings of the human heart are organized into philosophical
systems. There is in all human nature quite enough of querulousness against the unequal allotments
of Providence, but all these systems inculcate and foster that discontent
by the sanctions of philosophy.

The whole assumption of" The Light of Asia" is that the power that upholds and
governs the world is a hard master, from whose leash we should escape
if we can by annihilating our powers and faculties, and abdicating
our conscious being; that the world and the entire constitution of
things are all wrong; that misery is everywhere in the ascendant,
and that man and beast can only make common cause against the tyranny
of a reckless fate, and cry out with common voice for some sympathizing
benefactor who can pity and deliver.

There is no hint that sin has wrought the evil. Man is not so much a sinner as the victim of a hard lot; he is unfortunate,
and it is the world that is wrong. Therefore the true end of life is to get rid of the recurrence of life.
In much of our modern agnosticism there is the same dark outlook,
and agnosticism naturally joins hands with pessimism.

Dr. Noah Porter, in one of the series of" Present- Day Tracts," has shown it to be a doctrine
of despair.

A well- known lecturer who has loudly declaimed against what he considers the remorseless character
of the Old Testament, has acknowledged that it is not more cruel than nature; that in the actual
world about us we find the same dark mystery, the weak perishing before the strong, the wicked prosperous,
the just oppressed, and the innocent given as a prey to the guilty; and his conclusion is that
deism is no more defensible than Christianity. His pessimistic estimate
of the actual world drives him to a disbelief in a personal God.
We do not ignore the sad facts of life; even the Christian is often
saddened by the mysteries which he cannot explain. Bishop J. Boyd Carpenter,
in speaking of the sad and cheerless spirit of Buddhism, has said:"
There are moments in which we are all Buddhists; when life has disappointed
us, when weariness is upon us, when the keen anguish born of the sight
of human suffering appals and benumbs us, when we are frozen to terror,
and our manhood flies at the sight of the Medusa- like head of the
world' s unappeased and unappeasable agony; then we too are torn by
the paroxysm of anguish; we would flee to the Nirvana of oblivion
and unconsciousness, turning our back upon what we cannot alleviate,
and longing to lay down the burden of life, and to escape from that
which has become insupportable."[ 195] But these are only the dark
and seemingly forsaken hours in which men sit in despair beneath the
juniper- tree and imagine that all the world has gone wrong.

The juniper- tree in Christianity is the exception; the Bo- tree of Buddhism, with the same despondent
estimate, is the rule. No divine message came to show the Buddha a brighter side. And the agnostic stops his
ears that no voice of cheer may be heard. The whole philosophy of
Buddhism and of modern agnosticism is pessimistic. The word and Spirit
of God do not deny the sad facts of human life in a world of sin,
but they enable the Christian to triumph over them, and even to rejoice
in tribulation.

7. And this leads to one more common feature of all false systems,
their fatalism.

Among
the exaggerated claims which are made for heathen religions in our day, it is alleged that they rest
upon a more humane philosophy than appears in the grim fatalism of
our Christian theology, especially that of the Calvinistic type.

Without entering upon any defence of Christian doctrines of one type or another, it would be easy to show
that fatalism, complete and unmitigated, is at the foundation of all Oriental religion and philosophy, all ancient
or modern pantheism, and most of the various types of agnosticism. While this has been the point
at which all infidel systems have assailed the Christian faith, it has nevertheless been the goal which
they have all reached by their own speculations. They have differed from Christianity in that
their predestinating, determining force, instead of being qualified by any play of free- will, or
any feasible plan of ultimate and superabounding good, has been a real fatalism, changeless, hopeless,
remorseless. That the distaff of the Fates, and the ruthless sceptre
of the Erinnys, entered in full force into all the religions of the
Greeks and Romans, scarcely needs to be affirmed. They controlled
all human affairs, and even the gods were subject to them. The Sagas
of the Northmen also were full of fatalism, and that principle still
survives in the folk- lore and common superstitions of all Scandinavian,
Teutonic, and Celtic races.

The fatalism of the Hindus is plainly stated in the" Code of Manu," which declares that," in order
to distinguish actions, he( the creator) separated merit from demerit. To whatever course of action the
Lord appointed each kind of being, that alone it has spontaneously
adopted in each succeeding creation.

Whatever he has assigned to each at the first creation, noxiousness
or harmlessness, gentleness or ferocity, virtue or sin, truth or
falsehood, that clings to it."[ 196] The same doctrine is put in still
more offensive form when it is declared that seed"

Manu( here used in the sense of creator) allotted to woman a love of her
bed, of her seat, of ornament, also impure desires, wrath, dishonesty,
and bad conduct."[ 197] There would be some relief from this horrible
doctrine if in subsequent chapters of Manu there were kindly tokens
of grace, or sympathy for woman, or any light of hope here or hereafter;
but the whole teaching and spirit of the"

Code" rests as an iron yoke upon womanhood, extracts from his long address
to the Congress:"' Twenty years ago, and it is largely a result of this
high authority that the female sex has for ages been subjected to the
most cruel tyranny and degradation. It might well be said that, in spite
of the horrors of infanticide, the most merciful element of Hinduism
with respect to woman is the custom by which so large a proportion of
female children have been destroyed at birth.


His wife thought quite differently; but the poor thing did not dare say her soul was her own
in his presence. Aunt Kindly went off with rather a heavy heart, remembering that Jeduthan
was the son of a man sent to the State Prison for horse stealing, and born in the almshouse
at Bankton Four Corners, and had been bound out as apprentice by the selectmen of the town.

At the next house, Miss Robinson liked it; but hoped she "would not ask that family o'niggers,--that
would make it so vulgar;" and she took a large pinch of Scotch snuff, and waddled off to finish
her ironing. Mrs. Deacon Jackson--she was a second wife, with no children--hoped that "Sally
Bright would not be asked, because her father was in the State Prison for passing counterfeit
money; and the example would be bad, not friendly to law and order." But as Aunt Kindly went
out, she met the old Deacon himself,--one of those dear, good, kind souls, who were born to
be deacons of the Christian religion, looking like one of the eight beatitudes; and as you
stopped to consider which of that holy family he most resembled, you found he looked like all
of them. "Well!" said he, "now ma'am, I like that. That will be a Christian Christmas,--not
a Heathen Christmas. Of course you'll ask all the children of 'respectable people;' but I want
the poor ones, too. Don't let anybody frighten you from asking Sip Tidy's children. I don't
know that I like colored folks particularly, but I think God does, or he would not have colored
'em, you know. Then do let us have all of Jo Bright's little ones. When I get into the State
Prison, I hope somebody'll look after my family. I know you will. I don't mean to go there;
but who knows? 'If everybody had his deserts, who would escape a flogging?' as the old saying
is. Here's five dollars towards expenses; and if that ain't enough, I'll make it ten. Elizabeth
will help you make the cake, &c. You shall have as many eggs as you want. Hens hain't laid
well since Thanksgiving; now they do nothing else."

Captain Weldon let one iron cool on the anvil, and his bellows sigh out its last breath in
the fire and burn the other iron, while he talked with Aunt Kindly about it. The Captain was
a widower, about fifty years old, with his house full of sons and daughters. He liked it. Patty,
his oldest daughter, could help. There were two barrels of apples, three or four dollars in
money, and more if need be. "That is what I call the democracy of Christianity," said the good
man. "I shall see half the people in the village; they'll be in here to get their horses corked
before the time comes, and I'll help the thing along a little. I'll bring the old folks, and
we'll sing some of the old tunes; all of us will have a real old-fashioned good time." Almira,
his daughter, about eighteen years old, ran out to talk with Kindly, and offered to do all
sorts of work, if she would only tell her what. "Perhaps Edward will come, too," said Kindly.
"Do you want him?" asked Almira. "Oh, certainly; want all the LOVERS," replied she,--not looking
to see how her face kindled, like a handsome morning in May.

One sour old man, who lived off the road, did not like it. 'Twas a Popish custom; and said,
"I always fast on Christmas." His family knew they did, and many a day besides; for he was
so covetous that he grudged the water which turned his own mill.

Mr. Toombs, a young minister, who had been settled six or seven years, and loved the commandments
of religion much better than the creed of theology, entered into it at once, and promised to
come, and not wear his white cravat. His wife, Sally Wilkins that used to be, took to it with
all her might.

So all things were made ready. Farmers sent in apples and boiled chestnuts; and there were
pies, and cookies, and all manner of creature comforts. The German who worked for the cabinet-maker
decorated the hall, just as he had done in Wittenberg often before; for he was an exile from
the town where Martin Luther sleeps, and his Katherine, under the same slab. There were branches
of Holly with their red berries, Wintergreen and Pine boughs, and Hemlock and Laurel, and such
other handsome things as New England can afford even in winter. Besides, Captain Weldon brought
a great Orange-tree, which he and Susan had planted the day after their marriage, nearly thirty
years before. "Like Christmas itself," as he said,--"it is a history and a prophecy; full of
fruit and flowers, both." Roses, and Geraniums, and Chrysanthemums, and Oleanders were there,
adding to the beauty.

All the children in the village were there. Sally Bright wore the medal she won the last quarter
at the Union School. Sip Tidy's six children were there; and all the girls and boys from the
poor-house. The Widow Wheeler and her children thought no more of the railroad accident. Captain
Weldon, Deacon Jackson and his wife, and the Minister were there; all the Selectmen, and the
Town Clerk, and the Schoolmasters and Schoolma'ams, and the Know-nothing Representative from
the South Parish; great, broad-shouldered farmers came in, with Baldwin apples in their cheeks
as well as in their cellars at home, and their trim tidy wives. Eight or ten Irish children
came also,--Bridget, Rosanna, Patrick, and Michael, and Mr. And Mrs. O'Brien themselves. Aunt
Kindly had her piano there, and played and sung.

Didn't they all have a good time? Old Joe Roe, the black fiddler, from Beaver Brook, Mill Village,
was over there; and how he did play! how they did dance! Commonly, as the young folks said,
he could play only one tune, "Joe Roe and I;" for it is true that his sleepy violin did always
seem to whine out, "Joe Roe and I, Joe Roe and I, Joe Roe and I." But now the old fiddle was
wide awake. He cut capers on it; and made it laugh, and cry, and whistle, and snort, and scream.
He held it close to his ear, and rolled up the whites of his eyes, and laughed a great, loud,
rollicking laugh; and he made his fiddle laugh, too, right out.

The young people had their games. Boston, Puss in the Corner, Stir you must, Hunt the Squirrel
round the Woods, Blind Man's Buff, and Jerusalem. When he was released he infidels. Tom Paine was
one of their and onward, the test of attachment to the government was contempt for religion
and decency. Those suspected of disloyalty were gathered; one thousand
and five hundred women and children were shut up in one prison, wrote
the second part of the Age of Reason, and in 1802 he came back to
America.

What he did for American liberty was done while he was a Quaker, and before he wrote his detestable
works against the the utterance and made the week think to consist
of ten instead of seven days.

They took the bells from the churches and cast of the name of God to their children. They abolished
the Lord’ s day, them into cannons.

Chaumette, a leader in the convention, came before the president“ leading a courtesan with a troop of her
associates.” He lifted her veil, and said,“ Mortals Bible. Let some bold infidel produce just
one noble public act that Paine did for our country after he avowed himself an infidel. Will number,
participated in their deliberations, helped to get up the constitution
they enacted.

What they did is what the infidels of the United States wish to have
done.

They wiped out Christianity by vote, and forbade! recognize no other divinity than Reason, of which
I present to you the loveliest and purest personification.” The president bowed and devout adoration.
The same scene was reënacted in the cathedral of Notre Dame, with increased outrages upon God
and common- sense. incorrect was reputed, and the distinction between evil and virtue was banished. From
this time it done
said some? The leaders of the French revolution were the disciples of
Rousseau, Voltaire and Diderot.

They were atheists, or without fire, bed, cover, or provisions, for
two days.
 If a prayer parted, perhaps a benediction will unite us; for Katie and Ned
look as if they meant we should be more than mere neighbors. Let us begin by becoming friends." 

There is no analogy between“ true God.” Homer introduces Zeus in love, and as suffering at the
counterfeits or myths and the“ true God,” that remote power guess of God which is divided up and
parceled out among them. Their morals were the worst. The whole mythical hands of men bitterly complaining
bewailing himself, and plotted against by the these system is simply one
grand demonstration of human apostacy from the other gods.

He represents the gods. What is your name, blue eyes?" "Bobbie
Nilkinson," was the answer. It went right to the Colonel's heart. He walked about awhile, thinking,
and then found his neighbor. "Mr. Wilkinson," said he, "it is bad enough that you and I should
quarrel in law, but let us be friends in the gospel. As I looked at your little boy, and held
him up in my arms, and found out whose son he was, I felt ashamed that I had ever quarreled
with his father. Here is my hand, if you think fit to take it." "With all my heart," said Wilkinson.
"I fear I was more to blame than you. But we can't help the past; let us make amends for the
future. Wide[ 2] is the seat of the man gentle of speech; but knives are prepared
against one that forceth a path, that he advance not, save in due
season.[ 22] A word of unknown meaning; apparently some kind of plant.

Such a word seems out of place here, and may be idiomatic, like our"
flowery language."

But the preceding line obviously refers to this book.[ 20] The greater
part of this section is a play upon the root' sôdem,, which in its
meaning includes our hear( listen) and short is, the time of restraining
the heart, and gluttony is an abomination; therein is the quality
of a beast.

A good thing for goodness, but some small thing standeth for plenty.
every[ 3] A base man is he that is governed by his belly obey.

There is also an order of spirits of this name. 2. This tiresome torture of words is frequent in
Egyptian, especially in old religious texts.[ 18] Literally, after his stick or sceptre.[ 19]
Who knows them.{ 62} THE day INSTRUCTION OF KE' womanly GEMNI On
Avoiding Offence.[ 1] The cautious man flourisheth, the exact one
is praised; the innermost chamber openeth unto the man of silence.[
21] The"

Followers of Horus" are a legendary dynasty of demigods, believed by
the Egyptians to have ruled for about 13,400 years after the reign of Horus,
and before that of Mênês.

A cup of water quencheth the thirst, and a mouthful of melon supporteth
the heart.

If thou sit with a company of people, desire not the bread that thou
likest:; he departeth only when he is no longer able to fill full
his belly in men s houses.

 "Amen," said Mr. Broadside, a great, stout, robust farmer; "I stood by
till the Nebraska Bill put slavery into Kansas, then I went right square over to the anti-slavery
side. I shall stick there forever. a[ 37] Luke xiv.

10.[ 38] I Pet. v. 5.

Music"

What
do you mean by' the world'?" said a to me."

I suppose of course you rule out music and painting. outside"

So people judge; taking for granted that whatever, is pleasant, religion makes wrong of a little book yclept"
Rhymes and Jingles." A paid choir( no objection to that, if you can buy up their hearts as well)
an.

Rule out music?-- why it exorcised Saul' s evil spirit! even for the
enjoyment of sweet sounds there are laws and limitations. It will
be good day when our so- called sacred music( much of it) more nearly
resembles that of old time and has less kinship with the title operatic
organist, a silent, criticising congregation.

Is there much praise in that? much worship? much refreshment for a tired heart? Look how it was the
ark of God, the visible mark of his presence, was brought home to Jerusalem,--
all took part in the music, from the king down; and did it unto God.[]"
The singers went before, the players on instruments followed after;
among them were the damsels playing with timbrels. Bless ye God in
the congregations, even the Lord, from the fountain of Israel."[
2] Not much like a quartette and its mute audience!

Or how does this compare, with the way we hand over the praise to
some who do not even profess to feel it"

And
David spake to the chief of the Levites to their brethren to be singers
with instruments of music, psalteries and harps and cymbals, sounding,
by lifting up the voice with elation."

 The minister said,--"Well, I have been
preaching charity and forgiveness and a cheerful happiness all my life, now I see signs of
the 'good time coming.' There's forgiveness of injuries," pointing to Colonel Stearns and Mr.
Wilkinson; "old enemies reconciled. All my sermons don't seem to accomplish so much as your
Christmas Festival, Mr. Robinson," said he, addressing Uncle Nathan. "We only watered the ground,"
said Aunt Kindly, "where the seed was long since sown by other hands; only it does seem to
come up abundantly, and all at once."

