Was there nothing to be done? Robert wondered, as he paced restlessly back and forth, his mind
busy, as the mind of every man present, and anxious to make any sacrifice, to take any risk,
if by so doing they might save those imprisoned in the mine. Even while his mind was working,
he could not help listening to the talk of those around him. There were strange opinions expressed,
and wild plans of rescue were suggested and discussed and disputed. Everyone condemned the
coal company for what had happened, but over all there were the white-faced women and the silent
children; the muffled sobs, the tears, and the agony of silent wet eyes that spoke more pain
than all the tragedies that had ever been written.

Robert could not help listening to one man--a big, raw, loosely-built fellow, who stood in
the midst of a group of women laying off his idea of a rescue.

"I'm rale glad to be out of it," he said, "for Jean's sake, an' the bairns; but for a' that
I'd gang doon again an' try an' get them oot if there was ony chance o' doin' it."

"Hoo is Jean?" one woman interposed to enquire about his wife, who had been ill a long time.

"Oh, she's gettin' on fine noo, an' the doctor has a hopeful word o' her," he answered. "In
fact, I was just feeding the birds the last time he was in, an' asked him hoo she was doin'."

This man, Dugald McIntosh, had one god--his canaries. He read all he could get to read about
them, and studied the best conditions under which to rear them, sacrificed everything he could
to breed better birds, and this was always a topic for him to discourse upon.

"I was just busy feedin' them when he cam' in, and after he had examined her, I asked him hoo
she was gettin' on."

"Fine," he said, "gi'e her plenty o' sweet milk noo, and fresh eggs, an' she'll sune be on
her feet again. Fresh eggs! mind you, an' me canna get yin for my canaries! I thocht it was
a guid yin!"

Robert turned away; but there was working in his mind an idea, and he ran round to the colliery
office to the manager, who was nearly mad with grief and anxiety at what had happened.

"Come in, Sinclair," he said simply. "Can you suggest anything to help us? Whatever is done,
it can only be done quickly; for the moss is rising rapidly in the shaft, and even though some
of the men are safe in the upper workings, it is only a question of a very short time till
the moss will rise and suffocate them, or until the black damp does so. If you have any idea
that can help, out with it and let us make a trial, for the inactivity is killing me."

"I have been thinking, Mr. Anderson," replied Robert, "that we might go down the old air-shaft
over in the moss there, and run along the top level, which is not far from the surface, and
try and blast it through on the heading into which the moss broke."

It might be full of moss too, for no one knew the extent of the breakage in the metals, and
even though it were clear, the damp would be lying in it; but surely they might make an attempt
on it. Robert remembered working this level to within about nine feet from going through on
the heading. If he had plenty of hands, just to go down and drill a hole in anywhere, and blast
out the coal with a shot or two wherever he could best place them, he might succeed in getting
through to the men. It might be that after the first rush filling the roadways, the flood of
moss had drained off, and was not now running so thickly down the heading.

"Let me go and try, sir," he pleaded eagerly. "I think I can manage, if the level is still
unbroken. We can work in short turns, so as not to be overcome with the damp. Will you let
me have a try? I believe it's the only chance we have, and if we do succeed, look what it will
mean to the women in the village. Will you let me try?"

"Yes," replied Anderson, reaching for his lamp, "and I shall be one of the triers too. There is
something to be said in favour of the proposal, and it is a pity that the merits of the question
should have been somewhat obscured by the intolerable, but to some persons perhaps attractive,
suggestion that the additional expenditure necessary for making education
gratuitous should be supplied by the robbery of the Church, or (in
politer phrase) by the appropriation to the purposes of education
of the national property hitherto supplied to the support of religion.

This cat can scarcely be said to have been let out of the bag, for her head was no sooner seen
peeping out than the alarm created was dangerously great, and Puss was concealed again in a twinkling;
but she is inside the bag still. A much less objectionable proposal was speedily made, namely,
that the deficiency created by the remission of school-pence should be supplied by a Parliamentary
grant. And this proposal, we presume, may be regarded as at present
before the country.

Looking upon the matter from a Chancellor of the Exchequer point of view,
it is a serious thing to think of having to make an addition of about
two millions to the annual national expenditure; and it may be observed
that leading statesmen on both sides of politics may be found who
are at present unconvinced.

Doubtless an expenditure of two millions would not be grudged by
the nation for any necessary purpose; but when the proposal is to
substitute a payment of two millions by the Exchequer for the two
millions paid in driblets by the persons most interested, for the
most part gladly and with special provisions for preventing the payment
pressing hardly upon the exceptionally poor, it may well be that many
sensible persons will ask the question, Cui bono?

Independently, however, of any fiscal considerations, it seems to us that there are weighty arguments
against the proposal of a gratuitous education.

It may be observed, and we think it an important observation, that
the proposal of free education is in the teeth of all our recent policy; and
some pressing reasons ought to be given for a complete and sudden
reversal of all that we have hitherto been doing. There are many free
schools in the country, endowed by 'pious founders,' and established
for the special purpose of giving free education to the children of
particular parishes.

He glanced round him as he waited quietly in his swinging seat. He felt as he looked, no sense
of fear or impending doom. He knew that black damp probably lay in dense quantities down in
that yawning gulf below him, he knew that the sides of the shaft were in a bad state of disrepair,
and that they might give way at any time as the swinging rope must inevitably touch them, and
bring the whole thing in upon him, with hundreds of tons of débris and moss.

Yet it was not of these things he thought. Perhaps he did not think of anything particularly,
but a far-off lilt of a children's game which was played at school, kept iterating and reiterating
through his brain, and everything seemed done to that tune.

  "Don't take a laddie, oh,
  Laddie oh, laddie oh,
  Don't take a laddie oh,
  Take a bonnie wee lassie."

It sang continually within him and men seemed to move to its regular beat, as they hurried
to get ready. He looked at the hills, and noted how quiet everything seemed, their curving
outlines gave such a sense of eternal rest. There was a patch of lovely blue sky above him,
he noticed where the clouds opened up and a glint of golden glorious sunshine came through;
but it looked garish and it closed again and the white clouds trailed away, their lower fringes
clinging to the hill tops like veils of gossamer woven by time to deck the bride of Spring.
A lark rose at the edge of the crowd of weeping women and children as if unmindful of the tragedy
over which it sang so rapturously, and he noted its fluttering wings and swelling throat as
it soared in circles of glad song.

All these things and more he noted though it was but a momentary pause.

"Are you right?" came the question from the men at the windlass, far away it seemed and unconnected
with the scene.

"Right," he answered with a start, and looking round he seemed to become aware of the white-faced,
red-eyed women among whom his mother's face seemed to stand out. She was not weeping, he noticed,
but oh God! her face seemed to turn him with the intensity of the suffering in her eyes. He
realized that he had not noticed her before, and now with a wild throb of pity he stretched
out his hands towards her, a look of suffering in his eyes, as if he were feeling the pains
of humanity crucified anew, and the chair began to drop slowly below the surface, swinging
down into the darkness and the evil dangers that lurked below. Her face was the last thing
he saw--a face full of agony yet calm with a great renunciation coming to birth in her eyes,
her lips drawn thin like a slit in her face and all the color gone from them, the head bent
a little as if a great blow had fallen upon her--an island of agony set in a sea of despair.

A wild impulse seized him to go back. It was too much to ask of a woman, he felt. Too great
a burden of tragedy to heap upon one soul, as he cast his mind back through the suffering years
and viewed all the pain she had borne, and the terrible Gethsemane which her life had been;
but as the chair swung round he clutched the swaying rope and with the other hand steadied
it from crashing against the side of the shaft as they slowly dropped lower and lower into
the darkness and the evil smells which hung around.

"Things look bad here," said his comrade as they passed down where at some time a huge portion
from the side had fallen out and down into the bottom of the old shaft.

"Ay," answered Robert, "everything seems just ready to collapse," and they dropped lower and
lower, swaying from side to side, cautiously guiding their swinging chair from the moss-oozing
side, their nerves strained as they listened to the creeking rope as it was paid out from above.

"Holy God," cried his mate, "that was a near thing," as a huge mass of rocks and slimy moss
lunged out a little below them and hurtled away in a loud rumbling noise.

Robert pulled the signal cord to stop and looked up to see the white clouds passing over the
narrow funnel-like shaft in which they hung. Then he gave the signal to let out again noting
how thick with damp the atmosphere was becoming, and having difficulty with his light.

Lower and lower they swung and dropped down into the old shaft and as the rope creaked and
crazed above them it lilted:

  "Choose, choose, wha' you'll tak',
  Wha' you'll tak', wha' you'll tak',
  Choose, choose wha' you'll tak',
  A laddie or a lassie."

And the memory of the old lilt brought back other scenes again and he found himself guiding
the chair from the shaft side steering it off with his hand at every rhythmic beat of the child
song.

Soon they reached the bottom of the shaft, for it was not very deep, and found a mass of débris,
almost choking up the roadways on either side of the bottom. But they got out of their chair
and soon began to "redd" away the stones though they found very great difficulty in getting
the lamps to burn. Occasionally, as they worked, little pieces came tumbling from the side
of the shaft, telling its own tale, and as soon as Robert got a decent sized kind of opening
made through the rocks which blocked the roadway he sent up the other man to bring down more
help and to get others started to repair the old shaft by putting in stays and batons to preserve
the sides and so prevent them from caving in altogether.

He found his way along the level which had been driven to within nine feet of going through
on the heading in which the inbreak of moss had taken place. He noticed the roof was broken
in many places and that the timber which had been put in years before was rotten. Strange noises
seemed to assail his senses, and stranger smells, yet the lilt of that old childish game was
ever humming in his brain and he saw himself with other boys and girls with clasped hands linked
in a circle and going round in a ring as they sang the old ditty.

"Three breakings should dae it," he said as he looked at the face of the coal dripping with
water from the cracks in the roof. "If only they were here to put up the props. I could soon
blow it through," and he began to prepare a place for batons and props, pending the arrival
of more help from those who were only too eager to come down to his aid.

It was almost an hour before help came in the shape of two men carrying some props. Then came
another two and soon more timber began to arrive regularly and the swinging blows of their
hammers as they drove in the fresh props were soon echoing through the tunnels, and Robert
set up his boring machine and soon the rickety noise of it drowned all others. He paused to
change a drill when a faint hullo was heard from the other side.

"Hullo," he yelled, then held his breath in tense silence to hear the response which came immediately.
"Are you all safe?" he roared, his voice carrying easily through the open coal.

"Ay," came the faint answer; "but the moss is rising in the heading and you'll have to hurry up."

Robert knew this, and one of his helpers had gone down an old heading to explore and had returned
to say that it was rising steadily and was now within two hundred feet from the old shaft down
which he had descended.

"Where away did the roof break?" roared Robert as he changed his second drill.

"Half way doon the cousie brae," came the answer, "an' we're all shut in like rats. Hurry up
and get us oot," and again the rickety, rackety noise of the boring machine began and drowned
all other noises.

He soon drilled his holes and he could hear them on the other side singing now some ribald
song to keep up their courage, while others who were religiously inclined chanted hymns and
psalms, but all were wondering whether Robert and his men would be able to break through the
barrier in time to save them before the persistently rising moss claimed them.

He charged his shots and called them to go back, telling them the number of his charges, then
lit his fuse and ran out of the old level to wait in a place of safety while the explosion
took place.

Soon they boomed out and the concussion put them all in darkness; but they soon had the lamps
re-lit and were back in among the thick volumes of powder smoke, groping about and shading
their lamps and peering in to see what their shots had done to lessen the barrier between them
and their imprisoned comrades.

Then the shovels set to work and tossed the coal which the shots had dislodged back into the
roadway and soon the boring machines were busy again, eating into the coal; for those tireless
arms of Robert's never halted. He swung the handle or wielded the pick or shovel, never taking
a, rest, while the sweat streamed from his body working like some mechanical product for always
in his mind he was calculating his chances for being able to blast it through the barrier before
the moss rose.

"It has only a stoop length an' a half to rise now," reported one of the men. "It's creeping
up like the doom o' the day o' judgment. But I think we'll manage. If these shots do as well
as the last ones we should be within two feet of them, an' surely to God we can bite the rest
of it, if we canna blaw it. Let me stem the shots, Rob, an' you take a rest."

"You go to hell," was the unexpectedly astounding reply; for no one had ever heard Robert Sinclair
use language like this before. "As soon as thae shots are off an' if they blaw as well as the
others we'll turn out the coal an' then you can gang up the pit, every yin o' you. I'll soon
blow through the rest of it, and if you are all up by then it will make for speed in getting
the others out. We're going to have a race for it even though we manage as I'm thinking to.
So get out of the way and don't talk. Again the air's getting too dam'd thick for you all remaining
here. There's hardly as muckle as would keep a canary living," and again he called to those
on the other side to beware of the shots, and again ran out to a place of safety while the
explosions took place.

Once more the result of the shots was good; but the smoke choked and blinded them and one man
was overcome by the fumes. They carried him out the road a bit and after he showed signs of
coming round, Robert gave instructions for him to be taken to the surface.

"Oh, Lod, but it's nippin' my e'en," said one as he rubbed his eyes and blew his nose, sneezed
and finally expectorated. "It's as thick as soor milk, be dam'd!"

"Well, get him up, and I'll away back and redd out the shots and try and get it through again.
The moss is rising quicker noo an' it has only aboot eighty feet to come."

So back he went among the thick choking volume of smoke, tripping and stumbling and staggering
from side to side as he scrambled on. Would he be in time to blast the barrier down before
the steadily creeping moss rose to cut off his only avenue of escape?

"My God! What's that?" he asked himself as he paused while a rumble and crash behind him told
him that the old shaft had caved in burying his comrades in rocks and moss and water.

He ran back but could get no further than within a stoop length of the old shaft. There were
hundreds of tons of débris and all was finally lost. For the first time terror seized him and
he tore desperately at the bowlders of stone, cutting his fingers and lacerating his body all
over with cuts and bruises. He raved and swore and shouted in desperation, the sweat streaming
from every pore, his eyes wild and glaring, but he was soon driven back by the moss which was
oozing and percolating through the broken mass of bowlders and gradually it forced him back
with a rush as it burst through with a sudden slushing sound as if suddenly relieved from a
barrier which held it. Back he rushed, his light again becoming extinguished, the flood pursuing
him relentlessly, the air now so heavy that he could hardly breathe, but groping his way he
reached the first end roadway down which for the moment the flood ran to meet the rising moss
creeping up relentlessly from below.

Choking and only half conscious he staggered on with all sense of disaster gone from his mind,
with no thought of his comrades on the other side waiting so impatiently to be released, and
singing their frothy songs in the hope that all was well, his legs doubling below him, and
his lungs heaving to expel the poison which the thick air contained. Down at last he fell,
his head striking against the side of the roadway, and he lay still.

The moss might rise hungrily over him now, the rotten roof might fall upon him, all the dangers
of the mine might conspire together against him; but nothing they might do could ever again
strike terror into the young heart that lay there, feebly throbbing its last as it was being
overcome with the deadly poison of the black damp.

He was proof against all their terrors now, the spirit could evade them yet; for though the
old shaft might collapse and imprison his body and claim it as a sacrifice to the King Terror
of the Underworld, no prison was ever created that could contain the indomitable spirit of
man as God. He was free--free, and was happy and could cry defiance to the dangers of the mine,
to the terrors of time itself. He could clutch the corners of the earth, and play with it as
a toy of time, among the Gods of Eternity.

"Choose, choose wha' you'll tak'," throbbed the young heart and a smile of triumph played upon
the lips as the pictures of bygone times flitted across his dying brain. He was again the happy
infant, hungry it may be, and ill-clad, but Heaven contained no happier soul. The little stomach
might not be filled with sufficient food; but the spirit of him as it was in younger years
knew no material limits to its laughter in the childish ring games of youth. Again he was waiting
in the dark wintry mornings on Mysie, so that she would not be afraid to go to work on the
pit-head; ay, and he was happy to take the windward side of her in the storm, and shield her
from the winter's blast, tying her little shawl about her ears and making her believe he did
not feel the cold at all.

He was back again at his mother's knee, listening to her glorious voice singing some pitiful
old ballad, as she crooned him to sleep; or lying trying to forget the hunger he felt as the
glorious old tune seemed to drown his senses while he waited to say his prayer at night.

Then there was the "good-night" to everyone and the fond kiss of the best of all mothers, the
sinking into sleep that billowed and rocked the weary young spirit of him, crushed and bruised
by the forces of the world, and finally the sweet shy smile of a young girl blushing and awkward,
but flooding his soul with happiness and thrilling every fiber of him with her magic as she
stood upon the hill crest, outlined against the sunset with a soft breeze blowing, kissing
the gray hill side, bringing perfumes from every corner of the moor and beckoning him as she
rose upward, he followed higher and higher, the picture taking shape and becoming more real
until it merged into spirit.

And the creeping moss moved upward, hungry for its prey and greedy to devour the fine young
body so fresh and strong and lusty; but it was balked, for it claimed only the empty shell.
The prize had gone on the wings of an everlasting happiness and the spirit of the moor, because
there is no forgetting, triumphed over the spirit of destruction, so that in the records of
the spirit he shall say:

  "I shall remember when the red sun glowing
    Sinks in the west, a gorgeous flare of fire;
  How then you looked with the soft breeze blowing
    Cool through your hair, a heaving living pyre
  Fired by the sun for the sweet day's ending;
    I still shall hear the whirring harsh moor-hen,
  Roused from her rest among the rushes bending
    I shall remember then.

  "I shall remember every well-loved feature,
    How, on the hill crest when the day was done,
  Just how you looked, dear, God's most glorious creature,
    Heaven's silhouette outlined against the sun;
  I shall remember just how you the fairest,
    Dearest and brightest thing that God e'er made,
  Warmed all my soul with holy fire the rarest,
    That vision shall not fade."

But pain and tragedy forever seem to have no limit to their hunger; and in the clear spring
air above the place where the bodies of her boys lay, Mrs. Sinclair's heart was again the food
upon which the tragedy of life fed. All the years of her existence were bound up in the production
of coal, and the spirits of her husband and of her sons call to-day to the world of men--men
who have wives, men who have mothers, men who have sweethearts and sisters and daughters, stand
firm together; and preserve your women folk from these tragedies, if you would justify your
manhood in the world of men.