2.  Broadcast of propaganda at regular intervals over radio Saipan.

3.  Distribution of 500,000 Japanese language newspapers containing stories and pictures of
the atomic bomb attacks.

The campaign continued until the Japanese began their surrender negotiations.  At that time
some 6,000,000 leaflets and a large number of newspapers had been dropped.  The radio broadcasts
in Japanese had been carried out at regular 15 minute intervals.

SUMMARY OF DAMAGES AND INJURIES

Both the Hiroshima and the Nagasaki atomic bombs exhibited similar effects.

The damages to man-made structures and other inanimate objects was the result in both cities
of the following effects of the explosions:

A.  Blast, or pressure wave, similar to that of normal explosions.

B.  Primary fires, i.e., those fires started instantaneously by the heat radiated from the
atomic explosion.

C.  Secondary fires, i.e., those fires resulting from the collapse of buildings, damage to
electrical systems, overturning of stoves, and other primary effects of the blast.

D.  Spread of the original fires (B and C) to other structures.

The casualties sustained by the inhabitants of both cities were due to:

A.  "Flash" burns, caused directly by the almost instantaneous radiation of heat and light
at the moment of the explosion.

B.  Burns resulting from the fires caused by the explosion.

C.  Mechanical injuries caused by collapse of buildings, flying debris, and forceable hurling--about
of persons struck by the blast pressure waves.

D.  Radiation injuries caused by the instantaneous penetrating radiation (in many respects
similar to excessive X-ray exposure) from the nuclear explosion; all of these effective radiations
occurred during the first minute after initiation of the explosion, and nearly all occurred
during the first second of the explosion.

No casualties were suffered as a result of any persistent radioactivity of fission products
of the bomb, or any induced radioactivity of objects near the explosion.  The gamma radiations
emitted by the nuclear explosion did not, of course, inflict any damage on structures.

The number of casualties which resulted from the pure blast effect alone (i.e., because of
simple pressure) was probably negligible in comparison to that caused by other effects.

The central portions of the cities underneath the explosions suffered almost complete destruction.
The only surviving objects were the frames of a small number of strong reinforced concrete
buildings which were not collapsed by the blast; most of these buildings suffered extensive
damage from interior fires, had their windows, doors, and partitions knocked out, and all other
fixtures which were not integral parts of the reinforced concrete frames burned or blown away;
the casualties in such buildings near the center of explosion were almost 100%.  In Hiroshima
fires sprang up simultaneously all over the wide flat central area of the city; these fires
soon combined in an immense "fire storm" (high winds blowing inwards toward the center of a
large conflagration) similar to those caused by ordinary mass incendiary raids; the resulting
terrific conflagration burned out almost everything which had not already been destroyed by
the blast in a roughly circular area of 4.4 square miles around the point directly under the
explosion (this point will hereafter in this report be referred to as X).  Similar fires broke
out in Nagasaki, but no devastating fire storm resulted as in Hiroshima because of the irregular
shape of the city.

In both cities the blast totally destroyed everything within a radius of 1 mile from the center
of explosion, except for certain reinforced concrete frames as noted above.  The atomic explosion
almost completely destroyed Hiroshima's identity as a city.  Over a fourth of the population
was killed in one stroke and an additional fourth seriously injured, so that even if there
had been no damage to structures and installations the normal city life would still have been
completely shattered.  Nearly everything was heavily damaged up to a radius of 3 miles from
the blast, and beyond this distance damage, although comparatively light, extended for several
more miles.  Glass was broken up to 12 miles.

In Nagasaki, a smaller area of the city was actually destroyed than in Hiroshima, because the
hills which enclosed the target area restricted the spread of the great blast; but careful
examination of the effects of the explosion gave evidence of even greater blast effects than
in Hiroshima.  Total destruction spread over an area of about 3 square miles.  Over a third
of the 50,000 buildings in the target area of Nagasaki were destroyed or seriously damaged.
The complete destruction of the huge steel works and the torpedo plant was especially impressive.
The steel frames of all buildings within a mile of the explosion were pushed away, as by a
giant hand, from the point of detonation.  The badly burned area extended for 3 miles in length.
The hillsides up to a radius of 8,000 feet were scorched, giving them an autumnal appearance.

MAIN CONCLUSIONS

The following are the main conclusions which were reached after thorough examination of the
effects of the bombs dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki:

1.  No harmful amounts of persistent radioactivity were present after the explosions as determined
by:

A.  Measurements of the intensity of radioactivity at the time of the investigation; and

B.  Failure to find any clinical evidence of persons harmed by persistent radioactivity.

The effects of the atomic bombs on human beings were of three main types:

A.  Burns, remarkable for (1) the great ground area over which they were inflicted and (2)
the prevalence of "flash" burns caused by the instantaneous heat radiation.

B.  Mechanical injuries, also remarkable for the wide area in which suffered.

C.  Effects resulting from penetrating gamma radiation.  The effects from radiation were due
to instantaneous discharge of radiation at the moment of explosion and not to persistent radioactivity
(of either fission products or other substances whose radioactivity might have been induced
by proximity to the explosions).

The effects of the atomic bombs on structures and installations were of two types:

A.  Destruction caused by the great pressure from the blast; and

B.  Destruction caused by the fires, either started directly by the great heat radiation, or
indirectly through the collapse of buildings, wiring, etc.

4.  The actual tonnage of T.N.T. which would have caused the same blast damage was approximately
of the order of 20,000 tons.

5.  In respect to their height of burst, the bombs performed exactly according to design.

6.  The bombs were placed in such positions that they could not have done more damage from
any alternative bursting point in either city.

7.  The heights of burst were correctly chosen having regard to the type of destruction it
was desired to cause.

8.  The information collected would enable a reasonably accurate prediction to be made of the
blast damage likely to be caused in any city where an atomic explosion could be effected.

THE SELECTION OF THE TARGET

Some of the most frequent queries concerning the atomic bombs are those dealing with the selection
of the targets and the decision as to when the bombs would be used.

The approximate date for the first use of the bomb was set in the fall of 1942 after the Army
had taken over the direction of and responsibility for the atomic bomb project.  At that time,
under the scientific assumptions which turned out to be correct, the summer of 1945 was named
as the most likely date when sufficient production would have been achieved to make it possible
actually to construct and utilize an atomic bomb.  It was essential before this time to develop
the technique of constructing and detonating the bomb and to make an almost infinite number
of scientific and engineering developments and tests.  Between the fall of 1942 and June 1945,
the estimated probabilities of success had risen from about 60% to above 90%; however, not
until July 16, 1945, when the first full-scale test took place in New Mexico, was it conclusively
proven that the theories, calculations, and engineering were correct and that the bomb would
be successful.

The test in New Mexico was held 6 days after sufficient material had become available for the
first bomb.  The Hiroshima bomb was ready awaiting suitable weather on July 31st, and the Nagasaki
bomb was used as soon after the Hiroshima bomb as it was practicable to operate the second mission.

The work on the actual selection of targets for the atomic bomb was begun in the spring of
1945.  This was done in close cooperation with the Commanding General, Army Air Forces, and
his Headquarters.  A number of experts in various fields assisted in the study.  These included
mathematicians, theoretical physicists, experts on the blast effects of bombs, weather consultants,
and various other specialists. Some of the important considerations were:

A.  The range of the aircraft which would carry the bomb.

B.  The desirability of visual bombing in order to insure the most effective use of the bomb.

C.  Probable weather conditions in the target areas.

D.  Importance of having one primary and two secondary targets for each mission, so that if
weather conditions prohibited bombing the target there would be at least two alternates.

E.  Selection of targets to produce the greatest military effect on the Japanese people and
thereby most effectively shorten the war.

F.  The morale effect upon the enemy.

These led in turn to the following:

A.  Since the atomic bomb was expected to produce its greatest amount of damage by primary
blast effect, and next greatest by fires, the targets should contain a large percentage of
closely-built frame buildings and other construction that would be most susceptible to damage
by blast and fire.

B.  The maximum blast effect of the bomb was calculated to extend over an area of approximately
1 mile in radius; therefore the selected targets should contain a densely built-up area of
at least this size.

C.  The selected targets should have a high military strategic value.

D.  The first target should be relatively untouched by previous bombing, in order that the
effect of a single atomic bomb could be determined.

The weather records showed that for five years there had never been two successive good visual
bombing days over Tokyo, indicating what might be expected over other targets in the home islands.
The worst month of the year for visual bombing was believed to be June, after which the weather
should improve slightly during July and August and then become worse again during September.
Since good bombing conditions would occur rarely, the most intense plans and preparations were
necessary in order to secure accurate weather forecasts and to arrange for full utilization
of whatever good weather might occur.  It was also very desirable to start the raids before
September.

DESCRIPTION OF THE CITIES BEFORE THE BOMBINGS

Hiroshima

The city of Hiroshima is located on the broad, flat delta of the Ota River, which has 7 channel
outlets dividing the city into six islands which project into Hiroshima Bay.  The city is almost
entirely flat and only slightly above sea level; to the northwest and northeast of the city
some hills rise to 700 feet.  A single hill in the eastern part of the city proper about 1/2
mile long and 221 feet in height interrupted to some extent the spreading of the blast damage;
otherwise the city was fully exposed to the bomb.  Of a city area of over 26 square miles,
only 7 square miles were completely built-up.  There was no marked separation of commercial,
industrial, and residential zones.  75% of the population was concentrated in the densely built-up
area in the center of the city.

Hiroshima was a city of considerable military importance.  It contained the 2nd Army Headquarters,
which commanded the defense of all of southern Japan.  The city was a communications center,
a storage point, and an assembly area for troops.  To quote a Japanese report, "Probably more
than a thousand times since the beginning of the war did the Hiroshima citizens see off with
cries of 'Banzai' the troops leaving from the harbor."

The center of the city contained a number of reinforced concrete buildings as well as lighter
structures.  Outside the center, the area was congested by a dense collection of small wooden
workshops set among Japanese houses; a few larger industrial plants lay near the outskirts
of the city.  The houses were of wooden construction with tile roofs. Many of the industrial
buildings also were of wood frame construction. The city as a whole was highly susceptible
to fire damage.

Some of the reinforced concrete buildings were of a far stronger construction than is required
by normal standards in America, because of the earthquake danger in Japan.  This exceptionally
strong construction undoubtedly accounted for the fact that the framework of some of the buildings
which were fairly close to the center of damage in the city did not collapse.

The population of Hiroshima had reached a peak of over 380,000 earlier in the war but prior
to the atomic bombing the population had steadily decreased because of a systematic evacuation
ordered by the Japanese government.  At the time of the attack the population was approximately
255,000.  This figure is based on the registered population, used by the Japanese in computing
ration quantities, and the estimates of additional workers and troops who were brought into
the city may not be highly accurate.  Hiroshima thus had approximately the same number of people
as the city of Providence, R.I., or Dallas, Tex.

Nagasaki

Nagasaki lies at the head of a long bay which forms the best natural harbor on the southern
Japanese home island of Kyushu.  The main commercial and residential area of the city lies
on a small plain near the end of the bay.  Two rivers divided by a mountain spur form the two
main valleys in which the city lies.  This mountain spur and the irregular lay-out of the city
tremendously reduced the area of destruction, so that at first glance Nagasaki appeared to
have been less devastated than Hiroshima.

The heavily build-up area of the city is confined by the terrain to less than 4 square miles
out of a total of about 35 square miles in the city as a whole.

The city of Nagasaki had been one of the largest sea ports in southern Japan and was of great
war-time importance because of its many and varied industries, including the production of
ordnance, ships, military equipment, and other war materials.  The narrow long strip attacked
was of particular importance because of its industries.

In contrast to many modern aspects of Nagasaki, the residences almost without exception were
of flimsy, typical Japanese construction, consisting of wood or wood-frame buildings, with
wood walls with or without plaster, and tile roofs.  Many of the smaller industries and business
establishments were also housed in wooden buildings or flimsily built masonry buildings.  Nagasaki
had been permitted to grow for many years without conforming to any definite city zoning plan
and therefore residences were constructed adjacent to factory buildings and to each other almost
as close as it was possible to build them throughout the entire industrial valley.

THE ATTACKS

Hiroshima

Hiroshima was the primary target of the first atomic bomb mission.  The mission went smoothly
in every respect.  The weather was good, and the crew and equipment functioned perfectly. 
In every detail, the attack was carried out exactly as planned, and the bomb performed exactly
as expected.

The bomb exploded over Hiroshima at 8:15 on the morning of August 6, 1945.  About an hour previously,
the Japanese early warning radar net had detected the approach of some American aircraft headed
for the southern part of Japan.  The alert had been given and radio broadcasting stopped in
many cities, among them Hiroshima.  The planes approached the coast at a very high altitude.
At nearly 8:00 A.M., the radar operator in Hiroshima determined that the number of planes coming
in was very small--probably not more than three--and the air raid alert was lifted.  The normal
radio broadcast warning was given to the people that it might be advisable to go to shelter
if B-29's were actually sighted, but no raid was expected beyond some sort of reconnaissance.
At 8:15 A.M., the bomb exploded with a blinding flash in the sky, and a great rush of air and
a loud rumble of noise extended for many miles around the city; the first blast was soon followed
by the sounds of falling buildings and of growing fires, and a great cloud of dust and smoke
began to cast a pall of darkness over the city.

At 8:16 A.M., the Tokyo control operator of the Japanese Broadcasting Corporation noticed that
the Hiroshima station had gone off the air. He tried to use another telephone line to reestablish
his program, but it too had failed.  About twenty minutes later the Tokyo railroad telegraph
center realized that the main line telegraph had stopped working just north of Hiroshima. 
From some small railway stops within ten miles of the city there came unofficial and confused
reports of a terrible explosion in Hiroshima.  All these reports were transmitted to the Headquarters
of the Japanese General Staff.

Military headquarters repeatedly tried to call the Army Control Station in Hiroshima.  The
complete silence from that city puzzled the men at Headquarters; they knew that no large enemy
raid could have occurred, and they knew that no sizeable store of explosives was in Hiroshima
at that time.  A young officer of the Japanese General Staff was instructed to fly immediately
to Hiroshima, to land, survey the damage, and return to Tokyo with reliable information for
the staff.  It was generally felt at Headquarters that nothing serious had taken place, that
it was all a terrible rumor starting from a few sparks of truth.

The staff officer went to the airport and took off for the southwest. After flying for about
three hours, while still nearly 100 miles from Hiroshima, he and his pilot saw a great cloud
of smoke from the bomb. In the bright afternoon, the remains of Hiroshima were burning.

Their plane soon reached the city, around which they circled in disbelief.  A great scar on
the land, still burning, and covered by a heavy cloud of smoke, was all that was left of a
great city.  They landed south of the city, and the staff officer immediately began to organize
relief measures, after reporting to Tokyo.

Tokyo's first knowledge of what had really caused the disaster came from the White House public
announcement in Washington sixteen hours after Hiroshima had been hit by the atomic bomb.

Nagasaki

Nagasaki had never been subjected to large scale bombing prior to the explosion of the atomic
bomb there.  On August 1st, 1945, however, a number of high explosive bombs were dropped on
the city.  A few of these bombs hit in the shipyards and dock areas in the southwest portion
of the city.  Several of the bombs hit the Mitsubishi Steel and Arms Works and six bombs landed
at the Nagasaki Medical School and Hospital, with three direct hits on buildings there.  While
the damage from these few bombs were relatively small, it created considerable concern in Nagasaki
and a number of people, principally school children, were evacuated to rural areas for safety,
thus reducing the population in the city at the time of the atomic attack.

On the morning of August 9th, 1945, at about 7:50 A.M., Japanese time, an air raid alert was
sounded in Nagasaki, but the "All clear" signal was given at 8:30.  When only two B-29 superfortresses
were sighted at 10:53 the Japanese apparently assumed that the planes were only on reconnaissance
and no further alarm was given.  A few moments later, at 11:00 o'clock, the observation B-29
dropped instruments attached to three parachutes and at 11:02 the other plane released the
atomic bomb.

The bomb exploded high over the industrial valley of Nagasaki, almost midway between the Mitsubishi
Steel and Arms Works, in the south, and the Mitsubishi-Urakami Ordnance Works (Torpedo Works),
in the north, the two principal targets of the city.

Despite its extreme importance, the first bombing mission on Hiroshima had been almost routine.
The second mission was not so uneventful. Again the crew was specially trained and selected;
but bad weather introduced some momentous complications.  These complications are best described
in the brief account of the mission's weaponeer, Comdr., now Capt., F. L.  Ashworth, U.S.N.,
who was in technical command of the bomb and was charged with the responsibility of insuring
that the bomb was successfully dropped at the proper time and on the designated target.  His
narrative runs as follows:

"The night of our take-off was one of tropical rain squalls, and flashes of lightning stabbed
into the darkness with disconcerting regularity.  The weather forecast told us of storms all
the way from the Marianas to the Empire.  Our rendezvous was to be off the southeast coast
of Kyushu, some 1500 miles away.  There we were to join with our two companion observation
B-29's that took off a few minutes behind us. Skillful piloting and expert navigation brought
us to the rendezvous without incident.

"About five minutes after our arrival, we were joined by the first of our B-29's.  The second,
however, failed to arrive, having apparently been thrown off its course by storms during the
night.  We waited 30 minutes and then proceeded without the second plane toward the target area.

"During the approach to the target the special instruments installed in the plane told us that
the bomb was ready to function.  We were prepared to drop the second atomic bomb on Japan.
But fate was against us, for the target was completely obscured by smoke and haze.  Three times
we attempted bombing runs, but without success.  Then with anti-aircraft fire bursting around
us and with a number of enemy fighters coming up after us, we headed for our secondary target,
Nagasaki.

"The bomb burst with a blinding flash and a huge column of black smoke swirled up toward us.
Out of this column of smoke there boiled a great swirling mushroom of gray smoke, luminous
with red, flashing flame, that reached to 40,000 feet in less than 8 minutes.  Below through
the clouds we could see the pall of black smoke ringed with fire that covered what had been
the industrial area of Nagasaki.

"By this time our fuel supply was dangerously low, so after one quick circle of Nagasaki, we
headed direct for Okinawa for an emergency landing and refueling".

GENERAL COMPARISON OF HIROSHIMA AND NAGASAKI

It was not at first apparent to even trained observers visiting the two Japanese cities which
of the two bombs had been the most effective.

In some respects, Hiroshima looked worse than Nagasaki.  The fire damage in Hiroshima was much
more complete; the center of the city was hit and everything but the reinforced concrete buildings
had virtually disappeared.  A desert of clear-swept, charred remains, with only a few strong
building frames left standing was a terrifying sight.

At Nagasaki there were no buildings just underneath the center of explosion.  The damage to
the Mitsubishi Arms Works and the Torpedo Works was spectacular, but not overwhelming.  There
was something left to see, and the main contours of some of the buildings were still normal.

An observer could stand in the center of Hiroshima and get a view of the most of the city;
the hills prevented a similar overall view in Nagasaki.  Hiroshima impressed itself on one's
mind as a vast expanse of desolation; but nothing as vivid was left in one's memory of Nagasaki.

When the observers began to note details, however, striking differences appeared.  Trees were
down in both cities, but the large trees which fell in Hiroshima were uprooted, while those
in Nagasaki were actually snapped off.  A few reinforced concrete buildings were smashed at
the center in Hiroshima, but in Nagasaki equally heavy damage could be found 2,300 feet from
X.  In the study of objects which gave definite clues to the blast pressure, such as squashed
tin cans, dished metal plates, bent or snapped poles and like, it was soon evident that the
Nagasaki bomb had been much more effective than the Hiroshima bomb.  In the description of
damage which follows, it will be noted that the radius for the amount of damage was greater
in Nagasaki than Hiroshima.

GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF DAMAGE CAUSED BY THE ATOMIC EXPLOSIONS

In considering the devastation in the two cities, it should be remembered that the cities'
differences in shape and topography resulted in great differences in the damages.  Hiroshima
was all on low, flat ground, and was roughly circular in shape; Nagasaki was much cut up by
hills and mountain spurs, with no regularity to its shape.

In Hiroshima almost everything up to about one mile from X was completely destroyed, except
for a small number (about 50) of heavily reinforced concrete buildings, most of which were
specially designed to withstand earthquake shock, which were not collapsed by the blast; most
of these buildings had their interiors completely gutted, and all windows, doors, sashes, and
frames ripped out.  In Nagasaki, nearly everything within 1/2 mile of the explosion was destroyed,
including heavy structures.  All Japanese homes were destroyed within 1 1/2 miles from X.

Underground air raid shelters with earth cover roofs immediately below the explosion had their
roofs caved in; but beyond 1/2 mile from X they suffered no damage.

In Nagasaki, 1500 feet from X high quality steel frame buildings were not completely collapsed,
but the entire buildings suffered mass distortion and all panels and roofs were blown in.

In Nagasaki, 2,000 feet from X, reinforced concrete buildings with 10" walls and 6" floors
were collapsed; reinforced concrete buildings with 4" walls and roofs were standing but were
badly damaged.  At 2,000 feet some 9" concrete walls were completely destroyed.

In Nagasaki, 3,500 feet from X, church buildings with 18" brick walls were completely destroyed.
12" brick walls were severely cracked as far as 5,000 feet.

In Hiroshima, 4,400 feet from X, multi-story brick buildings were completely demolished.  In
Nagasaki, similar buildings were destroyed to 5,300 feet.

In Hiroshima, roof tiles were bubbled (melted) by the flash heat out to 4,000 feet from X;
in Nagasaki, the same effect was observed to 6,500 feet.

In Hiroshima, steel frame buildings were destroyed 4,200 feet from X, and to 4,800 feet in
Nagasaki.

In both cities, the mass distortion of large steel buildings was observed out to 4,500 feet from X.

In Nagasaki, reinforced concrete smoke stacks with 8" walls, specially designed to withstand
earthquake shocks, were overturned up to 4,000 feet from X.

In Hiroshima, steel frame buildings suffered severe structural damage up to 5,700 feet from
X, and in Nagasaki the same damage was sustained as far as 6,000 feet.

In Nagasaki, 9" brick walls were heavily cracked to 5,000 feet, were moderately cracked to
6,000 feet, and slightly cracked to 8,000 feet. In both cities, light concrete buildings collapsed
out to 4,700 feet.

In Hiroshima, multi-story brick buildings suffered structural damage up to 6,600 feet, and
in Nagasaki up to 6,500 feet from X.

In both cities overhead electric installations were destroyed up to 5,500 feet; and trolley
cars were destroyed up to 5,500 feet, and damaged to 10,500 feet.

Flash ignition of dry, combustible material was observed as far as 6,400 feet from X in Hiroshima,
and in Nagasaki as far as 10,000 feet from X.

Severe damage to gas holders occured out to 6,500 feet in both cities.

All Japanese homes were seriously damaged up to 6,500 feet in Hiroshima, and to 8,000 feet
in Nagasaki.  Most Japanese homes were damaged up to 8,000 feet in Hiroshima and 10,500 feet
in Nagasaki.

The hillsides in Nagasaki were scorched by the flash radiation of heat as far as 8,000 feet
from X; this scorching gave the hillsides the appearance of premature autumn.

In Nagasaki, very heavy plaster damage was observed in many buildings up to 9,000 feet; moderate
damage was sustained as far as 12,000 feet, and light damage up to 15,000 feet.

The flash charring of wooden telegraph poles was observed up to 9,500 feet from X in Hiroshima,
and to 11,000 feet in Nagasaki; some reports indicate flash burns as far as 13,000 feet from
X in both places.

Severe displacement of roof tiles was observed up to 8,000 feet in Hiroshima, and to 10,000
feet in Nagasaki.

In Nagasaki, very heavy damage to window frames and doors was observed up to 8,000 feet, and
light damage up to 12,000 feet.

Roofs and wall coverings on steel frame buildings were destroyed out to 11,000 feet.

Although the sources of many fires were difficult to trace accurately, it is believed that
fires were started by primary heat radiation as far as 15,000 feet from X.

Roof damage extended as far as 16,000 feet from X in Hiroshima and in Nagasaki.

The actual collapse of buildings was observed at the extreme range of 23,000 feet from X in
Nagasaki.

Although complete window damage was observed only up to 12,000 feet from X, some window damage
occurred in Nagasaki up to 40,000 feet, and actual breakage of glass occured up to 60,000 feet.

Heavy fire damage was sustained in a circular area in Hiroshima with a mean radius of about
6,000 feet and a maximum radius of about 11,000 feet; similar heavy damage occured in Nagasaki
south of X up to 10,000 feet, where it was stopped on a river course.

In Hiroshima over 60,000 of 90,000 buildings were destroyed or severely damaged by the atomic
bomb; this figure represents over 67% of the city's structures.

In Nagasaki 14,000 or 27% of 52,000 residences were completely destroyed and 5,400, or 10%
were half destroyed.  Only 12% remained undamaged.  This destruction was limited by the layout
of the city. The following is a summary of the damage to buildings in Nagasaki as determined
from a ground survey made by the Japanese:

  Destruction of Buildings and Houses          Number     Percentage
  (Compiled by Nagasaki Municipality)

  Total in Nagasaki (before atomic explosion)  50,000     100.0
  Blasted (not burned)                          2,652       5.3
  Blasted and burned                           11,494      23.0
  Blasted and/or burned                        14,146      28.3
  Partially burned or blasted                   5,441      10.9
  Total buildings and houses destroyed         19,587      39.2
  Undamaged                                    30,413      60.8

In Hiroshima, all utilities and transportation services were disrupted for varying lengths
of time.  In general however services were restored about as rapidly as they could be used
by the depleted population. Through railroad service was in order in Hiroshima on 8 August,
and electric power was available in most of the surviving parts on 7 August, the day after
the bombing.  The reservoir of the city was not damaged, being nearly 2 miles from X.  However,
70,000 breaks in water pipes in buildings and dwellings were caused by the blast and fire effects.
Rolling transportation suffered extensive damage.  The damage to railroad tracks, and roads
was comparatively small, however.  The electric power transmission and distribution systems
were badly wrecked.  The telephone system was approximately 80% damaged, and no service was
restored until 15 August.

Despite the customary Japanese lack of attention to sanitation measures, no major epidemic
broke out in the bombed cities.  Although the conditions following the bombings makes this
fact seem surprising, the experience of other bombed cities in both Germany and Japan show
Hiroshima and Nagasaki not to be isolated cases.

The atomic explosion over Nagasaki affected an over-all area of approximately 42.9 square miles
of which about 8.5 square miles were water and only about 9.8 square miles were built up, the
remainder being partially settled.  Approximately 36% of the built up areas were seriously
damaged.  The area most severely damaged had an average radius of about 1 mile, and covered
about 2.9 square miles of which 2.4 were built up.

In Nagasaki, buildings with structural steel frames, principally the Mitsubishi Plant as far
as 6,000 feet from X were severely damaged; these buildings were typical of wartime mill construction
in America and Great Britain, except that some of the frames were somewhat less substantial.
The damage consisted of windows broken out (100%), steel sashes ripped out or bent, corrugated
metal or corrugated asbestos roofs and sidings ripped off, roofs bent or destroyed, roof trusses
collapsed, columns bent and cracked and concrete foundations for columns rotated.  Damage to
buildings with structural steel frames was more severe where the buildings received the effect
of the blast on their sides than where the blast hit the ends of buildings, because the buildings
had more stiffness (resistance to negative moment at the top of columns) in a longitudinal
direction.  Many of the lightly constructed steel frame buildings collapsed completely while
some of the heavily constructed (to carry the weight of heavy cranes and loads) were stripped
of roof and siding, but the frames were only partially injured.

The next most seriously damaged area in Nagasaki lies outside the 2.9 square miles just described,
and embraces approximately 4.2 square miles of which 29% was built up.  The damage from blast
and fire was moderate here, but in some sections (portions of main business districts) many
secondary fires started and spread rapidly, resulting in about as much over-all destruction
as in areas much closer to X.

An area of partial damage by blast and fire lies just outside the one just described and comprises
approximately 35.8 square miles.  Of this area, roughly 1/6th was built up and 1/4th was water.
The extent of damage varied from serious (severe damage to roofs and windows in the main business
section of Nagasaki, 2.5 miles from X), to minor (broken or occasionally broken windows at
a distance of 7 miles southeast of X).

