1-119)

Question

1.   The Nature and Extent of Sacred Doctrine 2.   The Existence of God 3.   On the Simplicity
of God 4.   The Perfection of God 5.   Of Goodness in General 6.   The Goodness of God 7. 
The Infinity of God 8.   The Existence of God in Things 9.   The Immutability of God 10.  The
Eternity of God 11.  The Unity of God 12.  How God Is Known by Us 13.  The Names of God 14.
Of God's Knowledge 15.  Of Ideas 16.  Of Truth 17.  Concerning Falsity 18.  The Life of God
19.  The Will of God 20.  God's Love 21.  The Justice and Mercy of God 22.  The Providence
of God 23.  Of Predestination 24.  The Book of Life 25.  The Power of God 26.  Of the Divine
Beatitude 27.  The Procession of the Divine Persons 28.  The Divine Relations 29.  The Divine
Persons 30.  The Plurality of Persons in God 31.  Of What Belongs to the Unity or Plurality
in God 32.  The Knowledge of the Divine Persons 33.  Of the Person of the Father 34.  Of the
Person of the Son 35.  Of the Image 36.  Of the Person of the Holy Ghost 37.  Of the Name of
the Holy Ghost--Love 38.  Of the Name of the Holy Ghost, as Gift 39.  Of the Persons in Relation
to the Essence 40.  Of the Persons as Compared to the Relations or Properties 41.  Of the Persons
in Reference to the Notional Acts 42.  Of Equality and Likeness Among the Divine Persons 43.
The Mission of the Divine Persons

TREATISE ON THE CREATION

44.  The Procession of Creatures from God, and of the First Cause
       of All Things
45.  The Mode of Emanation of Things from the First Principle
46.  Of the Beginning of the Duration of Creatures
47.  Of the Distinction of Things in General
48.  The Distinction of Things in Particular
49.  The Cause of Evil

TREATISE ON THE ANGELS

50.  Of the Substance of the Angels Absolutely Considered
51.  Of the Angels in Comparison with Bodies
52.  Of the Angels in Relation to Place
53.  Of the Local Movement of the Angels
54.  Of the Knowledge of the Angels
55.  Of the Medium of the Angelic Knowledge
56.  Of the Angels' Knowledge of Immaterial Things
57.  Of the Angels' Knowledge of Material Things
58.  Of the Mode of the Angelic Knowledge
59.  The Will of the Angels
60.  Of the Love or Dilection of the Angels
61.  Of the Production of the Angels in the Order of Natural Being
62.  Of the Perfection of the Angels in the Order of Grace and of
       Glory
63.  The Malice of the Angels with Regard to Sin
64.  The Punishment of the Demons

TREATISE ON THE WORK OF THE SIX DAYS

65.  The Work of Creation of Corporeal Creatures 66.  On the Order of Creation Towards Distinction
67.  On the Work of Distinction in Itself 68.  On the Work of the Second Day 69.  On the Work
of the Third Day 70.  On the Work of Adornment, as Regards the Fourth Day 71.  On the Work
of the Fifth Day 72.  On the Work of the Sixth Day 73.  On the Things That Belong to the Seventh
Day 74.  On All the Seven Days in Common

TREATISE ON MAN

75.  Of Man Who Is Composed of a Spiritual and a Corporeal Substance:
       and in the First Place, Concerning What Belongs to the Essence
       of the Soul
76.  Of the Union of Body and Soul
77.  Of Those Things Which Belong to the Powers of the Soul in General
78.  Of the Specific Powers of the Soul
79.  Of the Intellectual Powers
80.  Of the Appetitive Powers in General
81.  Of the Power of Sensuality
82.  Of the Will
83.  Of Free-Will
84.  How the Soul While United to the Body Understands Corporeal
       Things Beneath It
85.  Of the Mode and Order of Understanding
86.  What Our Intellect Knows in Material Things
87.  How the Intellectual Soul Knows Itself and All Within Itself
88.  How the Human Soul Knows What Is Above Itself
89.  Of the Knowledge of the Separated Soul
90.  Of the First Production of Man's Soul
91.  The Production of the First Man's Body
92.  The Production of the Woman
93.  The End or Term of the Production of Man
94.  Of the State and Condition of the First Man as Regards His
       Intellect
95.  Of Things Pertaining to the First Man's Will--Namely, Grace
       and Righteousness
96.  Of the Mastership Belonging to Man in the State of Innocence
97.  Of the Preservation of the Individual in the Primitive State
98.  Of the Preservation of the Species
99.  Of the Condition of the Offspring As to the Body
100. Of the Condition of the Offspring As Regards Righteousness
101. Of the Condition of the Offspring As Regards Knowledge
102. Of Man's Abode, Which Is Paradise

TREATISE ON THE DIVINE GOVERNMENT

103. Of the Government of Things in General 104. The Special Effects of the Divine Government
105. Of the Change of Creatures by God 106. How One Creature Moves Another 107. The Speech
of the Angels 108. Of the Angelic Degrees of Hierarchies and Orders 109. The Ordering of the
Bad Angels 110. How Angels Act on Bodies 111. The Action of the Angels on Man 112. The Mission
of the Angels 113. Of the Guardianship of the Good Angels 114. Of the Assaults of the Demons
115. Of the Action of the Corporeal Creature 116. On Fate 117. Of Things Pertaining to the
Action of Man 118. Of the Production of Man from Man As to the Soul 119. Of the Propagation
of Man As to the Body

PROLOGUE

Because the Master of Catholic Truth ought not only to teach the proficient, but also to instruct
beginners (according to the Apostle: As Unto Little Ones in Christ, I Gave You Milk to Drink,
Not Meat-- 1 Cor. iii. 1, 2)--we purpose in this book to treat of whatever belongs to the Christian
Religion, in such a way as may tend to the instruction of beginners. We have considered that
students in this Science have not seldom been hampered by what they have found written by other
authors, partly on account of the multiplication of useless questions, articles, and arguments;
partly also because those things that are needful for them to know are not taught according
to the order of the subject-matter, but according as the plan of the book might require, or
the occasion of the argument offer; partly, too, because frequent repetition brought weariness
and confusion to the minds of the readers.

Endeavoring to avoid these and other like faults, we shall try, by God's help, to set forth
whatever is included in this Sacred Science as briefly and clearly as the matter itself may allow.

SUMMA THEOLOGICA

FIRST PART ["I," "Prima Pars"]

QUESTION 1

THE NATURE AND EXTENT OF SACRED DOCTRINE (in Ten Articles)

To place our purpose within proper limits, we first endeavor to investigate the nature and
extent of this sacred doctrine. Concerning this there are ten points of inquiry:

(1) Whether it is necessary?

(2) Whether it is a science?

(3) Whether it is one or many?

(4) Whether it is speculative or practical?

(5) How it is compared with other sciences?

(6) Whether it is the same as wisdom?

(7) Whether God is its subject-matter?

(8) Whether it is a matter of argument?

(9) Whether it rightly employs metaphors and similes?

(10) Whether the Sacred Scripture of this doctrine may be expounded in different senses?

FIRST ARTICLE [I, Q. 1, Art. 1]

Whether, besides Philosophy, any Further Doctrine Is Required?

Objection 1: It seems that, besides philosophical science, we have no need of any further knowledge.
For man should not seek to know what is above reason: "Seek not the things that are too high
for thee" (Ecclus. 3:22). But whatever is not above reason is fully treated of in philosophical
science. Therefore any other knowledge besides philosophical science is superfluous.

Obj. 2: Further, knowledge can be concerned only with being, for nothing can be known, save
what is true; and all that is, is true. But everything that is, is treated of in philosophical
science--even God Himself; so that there is a part of philosophy called theology, or the divine
science, as Aristotle has proved (Metaph. vi). Therefore, besides philosophical science, there
is no need of any further knowledge.

On the contrary, It is written (2 Tim. 3:16): "All Scripture inspired of God is profitable
to teach, to reprove, to correct, to instruct in justice." Now Scripture, inspired of God,
is no part of philosophical science, which has been built up by human reason. Therefore it
is useful that besides philosophical science, there should be other knowledge, i.e. inspired
of God.

I answer that, It was necessary for man's salvation that there should be a knowledge revealed
by God besides philosophical science built up by human reason. (Isa. 66:4). But the end must
first be known by men who are to direct their thoughts and actions to the end. Hence it was
necessary for the salvation of man that certain truths which exceed human reason should be
made known to him by divine revelation. Even as regards those truths about God which human
reason could have discovered, it was necessary that man should be taught by a divine revelation;
because the truth about God such as reason could discover, would only be known by a few, and
that after a long time, and with the admixture of many errors. Whereas man's whole salvation,
which is in God, depends upon the knowledge of this truth. Therefore, in order that the salvation
of men might be brought about more fitly and more surely, it was necessary that they should
be taught divine truths by divine revelation. It was therefore necessary that besides philosophical
science built up by reason, there should be a sacred science learned through revelation.

Reply Obj. 1: Although those things which are beyond man's knowledge may not be sought for
by man through his reason, nevertheless, once they are revealed by God, they must be accepted
by faith. Hence the sacred text continues, "For many things are shown to thee above the understanding
of man" (Ecclus. 3:25). And in this, the sacred science consists.

Reply Obj. 2: Sciences are differentiated according to the various means through which knowledge
is obtained. For the astronomer and the physicist both may prove the same conclusion: that
the earth, for instance, is round: the astronomer by means of mathematics (i.e. abstracting
from matter), but the physicist by means of matter itself. Hence there is no reason why those
things which may be learned from philosophical science, so far as they can be known by natural
reason, may not also be taught us by another science so far as they fall within revelation.
Hence theology included in sacred doctrine differs in kind from that theology which is part
of philosophy.

SECOND ARTICLE [I, Q. 1, Art. 2]

Whether Sacred Doctrine Is a Science?

Objection 1: It seems that sacred doctrine is not a science. For every science proceeds from
self-evident principles. But sacred doctrine proceeds from articles of faith which are not
self-evident, since their truth is not admitted by all: "For all men have not faith" (2 Thess.
3:2). Therefore sacred doctrine is not a science.

Obj. 2: Further, no science deals with individual facts. But this sacred science treats of
individual facts, such as the deeds of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob and such like. Therefore sacred
doctrine is not a science.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Trin. xiv, 1) "to this science alone belongs that whereby
saving faith is begotten, nourished, protected and strengthened." But this can be said of no
science except sacred doctrine. Therefore sacred doctrine is a science.

I answer that, Sacred doctrine is a science. We must bear in mind that there are two kinds
of sciences. There are some which proceed from a principle known by the natural light of intelligence,
such as arithmetic and geometry and the like. There are some which proceed from principles
known by the light of a higher science: thus the science of perspective proceeds from principles
established by geometry, and music from principles established by arithmetic. So it is that
sacred doctrine is a science because it proceeds from principles established by the light of
a higher science, namely, the science of God and the blessed. Hence, just as the musician accepts
on authority the principles taught him by the mathematician, so sacred science is established
on principles revealed by God.

Reply Obj. 1: The principles of any science are either in themselves self-evident, or reducible
to the conclusions of a higher science; and such, as we have said, are the principles of sacred
doctrine.

Reply Obj. 2: Individual facts are treated of in sacred doctrine, not because it is concerned
with them principally, but they are introduced rather both as examples to be followed in our
lives (as in moral sciences) and in order to establish the authority of those men through whom
the divine revelation, on which this sacred scripture or doctrine is based, has come down to us.

THIRD ARTICLE [I, Q. 1, Art. But the creator and the creature, both of whom are treated of
in sacred doctrine, cannot be grouped together under one class of subjects. Therefore sacred
doctrine is not one science.

Obj. 2: Further, in sacred doctrine we treat of angels, corporeal creatures and human morality.
But these belong to separate philosophical sciences. Therefore sacred doctrine cannot be one
science.

On the contrary, Holy Scripture speaks of it as one science: "Wisdom gave him the knowledge
[scientiam] of holy things" (Wis. 10:10).

I answer that, Sacred doctrine is one science. The unity of a faculty or habit is to be gauged
by its object, not indeed, in its material aspect, but as regards the precise formality under
which it is an object. For example, man, ass, stone agree in the one precise formality of being
colored; and color is the formal object of sight. Therefore, because Sacred Scripture considers
things precisely under the formality of being divinely revealed, whatever has been divinely
revealed possesses the one precise formality of the object of this science; and therefore is
included under sacred doctrine as under one science.

Reply Obj. 1: Sacred doctrine does not treat of God and creatures equally, but of God primarily,
and of creatures only so far as they are referable to God as their beginning or end. Hence
the unity of this science is not impaired.

Reply Obj. 2: Nothing prevents inferior faculties or habits from being differentiated by something
which falls under a higher faculty or habit as well; because the higher faculty or habit regards
the object in its more universal formality, as the object of the common sense is whatever affects
the senses, including, therefore, whatever is visible or audible. Hence the common sense, although
one faculty, extends to all the objects of the five senses. Similarly, objects which are the
subject-matter of different philosophical sciences can yet be treated of by this one single
sacred science under one aspect precisely so far as they can be included in revelation. So
that in this way, sacred doctrine bears, as it were, the stamp of the divine science which
is one and simple, yet extends to everything.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I, Q. 1, Art. 4]

Whether Sacred Doctrine Is a Practical Science?

Objection 1: It seems that sacred doctrine is a practical science; for a practical science
is that which ends in action according to the Philosopher (Metaph. ii). But sacred doctrine
is ordained to action: "Be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only" (James 1:22). Therefore
sacred doctrine is a practical science.

Obj. 2: Further, sacred doctrine is divided into the Old and the New Law. But law implies a
moral science which is a practical science. Therefore sacred doctrine is a practical science.

On the contrary, Every practical science is concerned with human operations; as moral science
is concerned with human acts, and architecture with buildings. But sacred doctrine is chiefly
concerned with God, whose handiwork is especially man. Therefore it is not a practical but
a speculative science.

I answer that, Sacred doctrine, being one, extends to things which belong to different philosophical
sciences because it considers in each the same formal aspect, namely, so far as they can be
known through divine revelation. Hence, although among the philosophical sciences one is speculative
and another practical, nevertheless sacred doctrine includes both; as God, by one and the same
science, knows both Himself and His works. Still, it is speculative rather than practical because
it is more concerned with divine things than with human acts; though it does treat even of
these latter, inasmuch as man is ordained by them to the perfect knowledge of God in which
consists eternal bliss. This is a sufficient answer to the Objections.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I, Q. 1, Art. 5]

Whether Sacred Doctrine Is Nobler than Other Sciences?

Objection 1: It seems that sacred doctrine is not nobler than other sciences; for the nobility
of a science depends on the certitude it establishes. But other sciences, the principles of
which cannot be doubted, seem to be more certain than sacred doctrine; for its principles--namely,
articles of faith--can be doubted. Therefore other sciences seem to be nobler.

Obj. 2: Further, it is the sign of a lower science to depend upon a higher; as music depends
on arithmetic. But sacred doctrine does in a sense depend upon philosophical sciences; for
Jerome observes, in his Epistle to Magnus, that "the ancient doctors so enriched their books
with the ideas and phrases of the philosophers, that thou knowest not what more to admire in
them, their profane erudition or their scriptural learning." Therefore sacred doctrine is inferior
to other sciences.

On the contrary, Other sciences are called the handmaidens of this one: "Wisdom sent her maids
to invite to the tower" (Prov. 9:3).

I answer that, Since this science is partly speculative and partly practical, it transcends
all others speculative and practical. Now one speculative science is said to be nobler than
another, either by reason of its greater certitude, or by reason of the higher worth of its
subject-matter. In both these respects this science surpasses other speculative sciences; in
point of greater certitude, because other sciences derive their certitude from the natural
light of human reason, which can err; whereas this derives its certitude from the light of
divine knowledge, which cannot be misled: in point of the higher worth of its subject-matter
because this science treats chiefly of those things which by their sublimity transcend human
reason; while other sciences consider only those things which are within reason's grasp. Of
the practical sciences, that one is nobler which is ordained to a further purpose, as political
science is nobler than military science; for the good of the army is directed to the good of
the State. But the purpose of this science, in so far as it is practical, is eternal bliss;
to which as to an ultimate end the purposes of every practical science are directed. Hence
it is clear that from every standpoint, it is nobler than other sciences.

Reply Obj. 1: It may well happen that what is in itself the more certain may seem to us the
less certain on account of the weakness of our intelligence, "which is dazzled by the clearest
objects of nature; as the owl is dazzled by the light of the sun" (Metaph. ii, lect. i). Hence
the fact that some happen to doubt about articles of faith is not due to the uncertain nature
of the truths, but to the weakness of human intelligence; yet the slenderest knowledge that
may be obtained of the highest things is more desirable than the most certain knowledge obtained
of lesser things, as is said in de Animalibus xi.

Reply Obj. 2: This science can in a sense depend upon the philosophical sciences, not as though
it stood in need of them, but only in order to make its teaching clearer. For it accepts its
principles not from other sciences, but immediately from God, by revelation. Therefore it does
not depend upon other sciences as upon the higher, but makes use of them as of the lesser,
and as handmaidens: even so the master sciences make use of the sciences that supply their
materials, as political of military science. That it thus uses them is not due to its own defect
or insufficiency, but to the defect of our intelligence, which is more easily led by what is
known through natural reason (from which proceed the other sciences) to that which is above
reason, such as are the teachings of this science.

SIXTH ARTICLE [I, Q. 1, Art. 6]

Whether This Doctrine Is the Same as Wisdom?

Objection 1: It seems that this doctrine is not the same as wisdom. For no doctrine which borrows
its principles is worthy of the name of wisdom; seeing that the wise man directs, and is not
directed (Metaph. i). But this doctrine borrows its principles. Therefore this science is not
wisdom.

Obj. 2: Further, it is a part of wisdom to prove the principles of other sciences. Hence it
is called the chief of sciences, as is clear in Ethic. vi. But this doctrine does not prove
the principles of other sciences. Therefore it is not the same as wisdom.

Obj. 3: Further, this doctrine is acquired by study, whereas wisdom is acquired by God's inspiration;
so that it is numbered among the gifts of the Holy Spirit (Isa. 11:2). Therefore this doctrine
is not the same as wisdom.

I answer that, This doctrine is wisdom above all human wisdom; not merely in any one order,
but absolutely. For since it is the part of a wise man to arrange and to judge, and since lesser
matters should be judged in the light of some higher principle, he is said to be wise in any
one order who considers the highest principle in that order: thus in the order of building,
he who plans the form of the house is called wise and architect, in opposition to the inferior
laborers who trim the wood and make ready the stones: "As a wise architect, I have laid the
foundation" (1 Cor. 3:10). Again, in the order of all human life, the prudent man is called
wise, inasmuch as he directs his acts to a fitting end: "Wisdom is prudence to a man" (Prov.
10: 23). Therefore he who considers absolutely the highest cause of the whole universe, namely
God, is most of all called wise. Hence wisdom is said to be the knowledge of divine things,
as Augustine says (De Trin. xii, 14). But sacred doctrine essentially treats of God viewed
as the highest cause--not only so far as He can be known through creatures just as philosophers
knew Him--"That which is known of God is manifest in them" (Rom. 1:19)--but also as far as
He is known to Himself alone and revealed to others. Hence sacred doctrine is especially called
wisdom.

Reply Obj. 1: Sacred doctrine derives its principles not from any human knowledge, but from
the divine knowledge, through which, as through the highest wisdom, all our knowledge is set
in order.

Reply Obj. 2: The principles of other sciences either are evident and cannot be proved, or
are proved by natural reason through some other science. But the knowledge proper to this science
comes through revelation and not through natural reason. Therefore it has no concern to prove
the principles of other sciences, but only to judge of them. Whatsoever is found in other sciences
contrary to any truth of this science must be condemned as false: "Destroying counsels and
every height that exalteth itself against the knowledge of God" (2 Cor. 10:4, 5).

Reply Obj. 3: Since judgment appertains to wisdom, the twofold manner of judging produces a
twofold wisdom. A man may judge in one way by inclination, as whoever has the habit of a virtue
judges rightly of what concerns that virtue by his very inclination towards it. Hence it is
the virtuous man, as we read, who is the measure and rule of human acts. In another way, by
knowledge, just as a man learned in moral science might be able to judge rightly about virtuous
acts, though he had not the virtue. And Dionysius says (Div. Nom. ii): "Hierotheus is taught
not by mere learning, but by experience of divine things." The second manner of judging belongs
to this doctrine which is acquired by study, though its principles are obtained by revelation.

SEVENTH ARTICLE [I, Q. 1, Art. 7]

Whether God Is the Object of This Science?

Objection 1: It seems that God is not the object of this science. For in every science, the
nature of its object is presupposed. But this science cannot presuppose the essence of God,
for Damascene says (De Fide Orth. i, iv): "It is impossible to define the essence of God."
Therefore God is not the object of this science.

Obj. 2: Further, whatever conclusions are reached in any science must be comprehended under
the object of the science. But in Holy Writ we reach conclusions not only concerning God, but
concerning many other things, such as creatures and human morality. Therefore God is not the
object of this science.

On the contrary, The object of the science is that of which it principally treats. But in this
science, the treatment is mainly about God; for it is called theology, as treating of God.
Therefore God is the object of this science.

I answer that, God is the object of this science. The relation between a science and its object
is the same as that between a habit or faculty and its object. Now properly speaking, the object
of a faculty or habit is the thing under the aspect of which all things are referred to that
faculty or habit, as man and stone are referred to the faculty of sight in that they are colored.
Hence colored things are the proper objects of sight. But in sacred science, all things are
treated of under the aspect of God: either because they are God Himself or because they refer
to God as their beginning and end. Hence it follows that God is in very truth the object of
this science. This is clear also from the principles of this science, namely, the articles
of faith, for faith is about God. The object of the principles and of the whole science must
be the same, since the whole science is contained virtually in its principles. Some, however,
looking to what is treated of in this science, and not to the aspect under which it is treated,
have asserted the object of this science to be something other than God--that is, either things
and signs; or the works of salvation; or the whole Christ, as the head and members. Of all
these things, in truth, we treat in this science, but so far as they have reference to God.

Reply Obj. 1: Although we cannot know in what consists the essence of God, nevertheless in
this science we make use of His effects, either of nature or of grace, in place of a definition,
in regard to whatever is treated of in this science concerning God; even as in some philosophical
sciences we demonstrate something about a cause from its effect, by taking the effect in place
of a definition of the cause.

Reply Obj. 2: Whatever other conclusions are reached in this sacred science are comprehended
under God, not as parts or species or accidents but as in some way related to Him.

EIGHTH ARTICLE [I, Q. 1, Art. 8]

Whether Sacred Doctrine is a Matter of Argument?

Objection 1: It seems this doctrine is not a matter of argument. For Ambrose says (De Fide
1): "Put arguments aside where faith is sought." But in this doctrine, faith especially is
sought: "But these things are written that you may believe" (John 20:31). Therefore sacred
doctrine is not a matter of argument.

Obj. 2: Further, if it is a matter of argument, the argument is either from authority or from
reason. If it is from authority, it seems unbefitting its dignity, for the proof from authority
is the weakest form of proof. But if it is from reason, this is unbefitting its end, because,
according to Gregory (Hom. 26), "faith has no merit in those things of which human reason brings
its own experience." Therefore sacred doctrine is not a matter of argument. (Titus 1:9).

I answer that, As other sciences do not argue in proof of their principles, but argue from
their principles to demonstrate other truths in these sciences: so this doctrine does not argue
in proof of its principles, which are the articles of faith, but from them it goes on to prove
something else; as the Apostle from the resurrection of Christ argues in proof of the general
resurrection (1 Cor. 15). However, it is to be borne in mind, in regard to the philosophical
sciences, that the inferior sciences neither prove their principles nor dispute with those
who deny them, but leave this to a higher science; whereas the highest of them, viz. metaphysics,
can dispute with one who denies its principles, if only the opponent will make some concession;
but if he concede nothing, it can have no dispute with him, though it can answer his objections.
Hence Sacred Scripture, since it has no science above itself, can dispute with one who denies
its principles only if the opponent admits some at least of the truths obtained through divine
revelation; thus we can argue with heretics from texts in Holy Writ, and against those who
deny one article of faith, we can argue from another. If our opponent believes nothing of divine
revelation, there is no longer any means of proving the articles of faith by reasoning, but
only of answering his objections--if he has any--against faith. Since faith rests upon infallible
truth, and since the contrary of a truth can never be demonstrated, it is clear that the arguments
brought against faith cannot be demonstrations, but are difficulties that can be answered.

Reply Obj. 1: Although arguments from human reason cannot avail to prove what must be received
on faith, nevertheless, this doctrine argues from articles of faith to other truths.

Reply Obj. 2: This doctrine is especially based upon arguments from authority, inasmuch as
its principles are obtained by revelation: thus we ought to believe on the authority of those
to whom the revelation has been made. Nor does this take away from the dignity of this doctrine,
for although the argument from authority based on human reason is the weakest, yet the argument
from authority based on divine revelation is the strongest. But sacred doctrine makes use even
of human reason, not, indeed, to prove faith (for thereby the merit of faith would come to
an end), but to make clear other things that are put forward in this doctrine. Since therefore
grace does not destroy nature but perfects it, natural reason should minister to faith as the
natural bent of the will ministers to charity. Hence the Apostle says: "Bringing into captivity
every understanding unto the obedience of Christ" (2 Cor. 10:5). Hence sacred doctrine makes
use also of the authority of philosophers in those questions in which they were able to know
the truth by natural reason, as Paul quotes a saying of Aratus: "As some also of your own poets
said: For we are also His offspring" (Acts 17:28). Nevertheless, sacred doctrine makes use
of these authorities as extrinsic and probable arguments; but properly uses the authority of
the canonical Scriptures as an incontrovertible proof, and the authority of the doctors of
the Church as one that may properly be used, yet merely as probable. For our faith rests upon
the revelation made to the apostles and prophets who wrote the canonical books, and not on
the revelations (if any such there are) made to other doctors. Hence Augustine says (Epis.
ad Hieron. xix, 1): "Only those books of Scripture which are called canonical have I learned
to hold in such honor as to believe their authors have not erred in any way in writing them.
But other authors I so read as not to deem everything in their works to be true, merely on
account of their having so thought and written, whatever may have been their holiness and learning."

NINTH ARTICLE [I, Q. 1, Art. 9]

Whether Holy Scripture Should Use Metaphors?

Objection 1: It seems that Holy Scripture should not use metaphors. For that which is proper
to the lowest science seems not to befit this science, which holds the highest place of all.
But to proceed by the aid of various similitudes and figures is proper to poetry, the least
of all the sciences. Therefore it is not fitting that this science should make use of such
similitudes.

Obj. 2: Further, this doctrine seems to be intended to make truth clear. Hence a reward is
held out to those who manifest it: "They that explain me shall have life everlasting" (Ecclus.
24:31). But by such similitudes truth is obscured. Therefore, to put forward divine truths
by likening them to corporeal things does not befit this science.

Obj. 3: Further, the higher creatures are, the nearer they approach to the divine likeness.
If therefore any creature be taken to represent God, this representation ought chiefly to be
taken from the higher creatures, and not from the lower; yet this is often found in Scriptures.
But to put forward anything by means of similitudes is to use metaphors. Therefore this sacred
science may use metaphors.

I answer that, It is befitting Holy Writ to put forward divine and spiritual truths by means
of comparisons with material things. For God provides for everything according to the capacity
of its nature. Now it is natural to man to attain to intellectual truths through sensible objects,
because all our knowledge originates from sense. Hence in Holy Writ, spiritual truths are fittingly
taught under the likeness of material things. This is what Dionysius says (Coel. Hier. i):
"We cannot be enlightened by the divine rays except they be hidden within the covering of many
sacred veils." It is also befitting Holy Writ, which is proposed to all without distinction
of persons--"To the wise and to the unwise I am a debtor" (Rom. 1:14)--that spiritual truths
be expounded by means of figures taken from corporeal things, in order that thereby even the
simple who are unable by themselves to grasp intellectual things may be able to understand it.

Reply Obj. 1: Poetry makes use of metaphors to produce a representation, for it is natural
to man to be pleased with representations. But sacred doctrine makes use of metaphors as both
necessary and useful.

Reply Obj. 2: The ray of divine revelation is not extinguished by the sensible imagery wherewith
it is veiled, as Dionysius says (Coel. Hier. i); and its truth so far remains that it does
not allow the minds of those to whom the revelation has been made, to rest in the metaphors,
but raises them to the knowledge of truths; and through those to whom the revelation has been
made others also may receive instruction in these matters. Hence those things that are taught
metaphorically in one part of Scripture, in other parts are taught more openly. The very hiding
of truth in figures is useful for the exercise of thoughtful minds and as a defense against
the ridicule of the impious, according to the words "Give not that which is holy to dogs" (Matt.
7:6).

Reply Obj. 3: As Dionysius says, (Coel. Hier. i) it is more fitting that divine truths should
be expounded under the figure of less noble than of nobler bodies, and this for three reasons.
Firstly, because thereby men's minds are the better preserved from error. For then it is clear
that these things are not literal descriptions of divine truths, which might have been open
to doubt had they been expressed under the figure of nobler bodies, especially for those who
could think of nothing nobler than bodies. Secondly, because this is more befitting the knowledge
of God that we have in this life. For what He is not is clearer to us than what He is. Therefore
similitudes drawn from things farthest away from God form within us a truer estimate that God
is above whatsoever we may say or think of Him. Thirdly, because thereby divine truths are
the better hidden from the unworthy.

TENTH ARTICLE [I, Q. 1, Art. 10]

Whether in Holy Scripture a Word may have Several Senses?

Objection 1: It seems that in Holy Writ a word cannot have several senses, historical or literal,
allegorical, tropological or moral, and anagogical. For many different senses in one text produce
confusion and deception and destroy all force of argument. Hence no argument, but only fallacies,
can be deduced from a multiplicity of propositions. But Holy Writ ought to be able to state
the truth without any fallacy. Therefore in it there cannot be several senses to a word.

Obj. 2: Further, Augustine says (De util. cred. iii) that "the Old Testament has a fourfold
division as to history, etiology, analogy and allegory." Now these four seem altogether different
from the four divisions mentioned in the first objection. Therefore it does not seem fitting
to explain the same word of Holy Writ according to the four different senses mentioned above.

Obj. 3: Further, besides these senses, there is the parabolical, which is not one of these four.

On the contrary, Gregory says (Moral. xx, 1): "Holy Writ by the manner of its speech transcends
every science, because in one and the same sentence, while it describes a fact, it reveals
a mystery."

I answer that, The author of Holy Writ is God, in whose power it is to signify His meaning,
not by words only (as man also can do), but also by things themselves. So, whereas in every
other science things are signified by words, this science has the property, that the things
signified by the words have themselves also a signification. Therefore that first signification
whereby words signify things belongs to the first sense, the historical or literal. That signification
whereby things signified by words have themselves also a signification is called the spiritual
sense, which is based on the literal, and presupposes it. Now this spiritual sense has a threefold
division. For as the Apostle says (Heb. 10:1) the Old Law is a figure of the New Law, and Dionysius
says (Coel. Hier. i) "the New Law itself is a figure of future glory." Again, in the New Law,
whatever our Head has done is a type of what we ought to do. Since the literal sense is that
which the author intends, and since the author of Holy Writ is God, Who by one act comprehends
all things by His intellect, it is not unfitting, as Augustine says (Confess. xii), if, even
according to the literal sense, one word in Holy Writ should have several senses.

Reply Obj. 1: The multiplicity of these senses does not produce equivocation or any other kind
of multiplicity, seeing that these senses are not multiplied because one word signifies several
things, but because the things signified by the words can be themselves types of other things.
Thus in Holy Writ no confusion results, for all the senses are founded on one--the literal--from
which alone can any argument be drawn, and not from those intended in allegory, as Augustine
says (Epis. 48). Nevertheless, nothing of Holy Scripture perishes on account of this, since
nothing necessary to faith is contained under the spiritual sense which is not elsewhere put
forward by the Scripture in its literal sense.

Reply Obj. 2: These three--history, etiology, analogy--are grouped under the literal sense.
For it is called history, as Augustine expounds (Epis. 48), whenever anything is simply related;
it is called etiology when its cause is assigned, as when Our Lord gave the reason why Moses
allowed the putting away of wives--namely, on account of the hardness of men's hearts; it is
called analogy whenever the truth of one text of Scripture is shown not to contradict the truth
of another. Of these four, allegory alone stands for the three spiritual senses. Thus Hugh
of St. Victor (Sacram. iv, 4 Prolog.) includes the anagogical under the allegorical sense,
laying down three senses only--the historical, the allegorical, and the tropological.

Reply Obj. 3: The parabolical sense is contained in the literal, for by words things are signified
properly and figuratively. Nor is the figure itself, but that which is figured, the literal
sense. When Scripture speaks of God's arm, the literal sense is not that God has such a member,
but only what is signified by this member, namely operative power. Hence it is plain that nothing
false can ever underlie the literal sense of Holy Writ.

QUESTION 2

THE EXISTENCE OF GOD (In Three Articles)

Because the chief aim of sacred doctrine is to teach the knowledge of God, not only as He is
in Himself, but also as He is the beginning of things and their last end, and especially of
rational creatures, as is clear from what has been already said, therefore, in our endeavor
to expound this science, we shall treat:

(1) Of God;

(2) Of the rational creature's advance towards God;

(3) Of Christ, Who as man, is our way to God.

In treating of God there will be a threefold division, for we shall consider:

(1) Whatever concerns the Divine Essence;

(2) Whatever concerns the distinctions of Persons;

(3) Whatever concerns the procession of creatures from Him.

Concerning the Divine Essence, we must consider:

(1) Whether God exists?

(2) The manner of His existence, or, rather, what is not the manner of His existence;

(3) Whatever concerns His operations--namely, His knowledge, will, power.

Concerning the first, there are three points of inquiry:

(1) Whether the proposition "God exists" is self-evident?

(2) Whether it is demonstrable?

(3) Whether God exists?

FIRST ARTICLE [I, Q. 2, Art. 1]

Whether the Existence of God Is Self-Evident?

Objection 1: It seems that the existence of God is self-evident. Now those things are said
to be self-evident to us the knowledge of which is naturally implanted in us, as we can see
in regard to first principles. But as Damascene says (De Fide Orth. i, 1,3), "the knowledge
of God is naturally implanted in all." Therefore the existence of God is self-evident.

Obj. 2: Further, those things are said to be self-evident which are known as soon as the terms
are known, which the Philosopher (1 Poster. iii) says is true of the first principles of demonstration.
Thus, when the nature of a whole and of a part is known, it is at once recognized that every
whole is greater than its part. But as soon as the signification of the word "God" is understood,
it is at once seen that God exists. For by this word is signified that thing than which nothing
greater can be conceived. But that which exists actually and mentally is greater than that
which exists only mentally. Therefore, since as soon as the word "God" is understood it exists
mentally, it also follows that it exists actually. Therefore the proposition "God exists" is
self-evident.

Obj. 3: Further, the existence of truth is self-evident. For whoever denies the existence of
truth grants that truth does not exist: and, if truth does not exist, then the proposition
"Truth does not exist" is true: and if there is anything true, there must be truth. But God
is truth itself: "I am the way, the truth, and the life" (John 14:6) Therefore "God exists"
is self-evident.

On the contrary, No one can mentally admit the opposite of what is self-evident; as the Philosopher
(Metaph. iv, lect. vi) states concerning the first principles of demonstration. But the opposite
of the proposition "God is" can be mentally admitted: "The fool said in his heart, There is
no God" (Ps. 52:1). Therefore, that God exists is not self-evident.

I answer that, A thing can be self-evident in either of two ways: on the one hand, self-evident
in itself, though not to us; on the other, self-evident in itself, and to us. A proposition
is self-evident because the predicate is included in the essence of the subject, as "Man is
an animal," for animal is contained in the essence of man. If, therefore the essence of the
predicate and subject be known to all, the proposition will be self-evident to all; as is clear
with regard to the first principles of demonstration, the terms of which are common things
that no one is ignorant of, such as being and non-being, whole and part, and such like. If,
however, there are some to whom the essence of the predicate and subject is unknown, the proposition
will be self-evident in itself, but not to those who do not know the meaning of the predicate
and subject of the proposition. Therefore, it happens, as Boethius says (Hebdom., the title
of which is: "Whether all that is, is good"), "that there are some mental concepts self-evident
only to the learned, as that incorporeal substances are not in space." Therefore I say that
this proposition, "God exists," of itself is self-evident, for the predicate is the same as
the subject, because God is His own existence as will be hereafter shown (Q. 3, Art. 4). Now
because we do not know the essence of God, the proposition is not self-evident to us; but needs
to be demonstrated by things that are more known to us, though less known in their nature--namely,
by effects.

Reply Obj. 1: To know that God exists in a general and confused way is implanted in us by nature,
inasmuch as God is man's beatitude. For man naturally desires happiness, and what is naturally
desired by man must be naturally known to him. This, however, is not to know absolutely that
God exists; just as to know that someone is approaching is not the same as to know that Peter
is approaching, even though it is Peter who is approaching; for many there are who imagine
that man's perfect good which is happiness, consists in riches, and others in pleasures, and
others in something else.

Reply Obj. 2: Perhaps not everyone who hears this word "God" understands it to signify something
than which nothing greater can be thought, seeing that some have believed God to be a body.
Yet, granted that everyone understands that by this word "God" is signified something than
which nothing greater can be thought, nevertheless, it does not therefore follow that he understands
that what the word signifies exists actually, but only that it exists mentally. Nor can it
be argued that it actually exists, unless it be admitted that there actually exists something
than which nothing greater can be thought; and this precisely is not admitted by those who
hold that God does not exist.

Reply Obj. 3: The existence of truth in general is self-evident but the existence of a Primal
Truth is not self-evident to us.

SECOND ARTICLE [I, Q. 2, Art. 2]

Whether It Can Be Demonstrated That God Exists?

Objection 1: It seems that the existence of God cannot be demonstrated. For it is an article
of faith that God exists. But what is of faith cannot be demonstrated, because a demonstration
produces scientific knowledge; whereas faith is of the unseen (Heb. 11:1). Therefore it cannot
be demonstrated that God exists.

Obj. 2: Further, the essence is the middle term of demonstration. But we cannot know in what
God's essence consists, but solely in what it does not consist; as Damascene says (De Fide
Orth. i, 4). Therefore we cannot demonstrate that God exists.

Obj. 3: Further, if the existence of God were demonstrated, this could only be from His effects.
But His effects are not proportionate to Him, since He is infinite and His effects are finite;
and between the finite and infinite there is no proportion. Therefore, since a cause cannot
be demonstrated by an effect not proportionate to it, it seems that the existence of God cannot
be demonstrated. But this would not be unless the existence of God could be demonstrated through
the things that are made; for the first thing we must know of anything is whether it exists.

I answer that, Demonstration can be made in two ways: One is through the cause, and is called
a priori, and this is to argue from what is prior absolutely. The other is through the effect,
and is called a demonstration a posteriori; this is to argue from what is prior relatively
only to us. When an effect is better known to us than its cause, from the effect we proceed
to the knowledge of the cause. And from every effect the existence of its proper cause can
be demonstrated, so long as its effects are better known to us; because since every effect
depends upon its cause, if the effect exists, the cause must pre-exist. Hence the existence
of God, in so far as it is not self-evident to us, can be demonstrated from those of His effects
which are known to us.

Reply Obj. 1: The existence of God and other like truths about God, which can be known by natural
reason, are not articles of faith, but are preambles to the articles; for faith presupposes
natural knowledge, even as grace presupposes nature, and perfection supposes something that
can be perfected. Nevertheless, there is nothing to prevent a man, who cannot grasp a proof,
accepting, as a matter of faith, something which in itself is capable of being scientifically
known and demonstrated.

Reply Obj. 2: When the existence of a cause is demonstrated from an effect, this effect takes
the place of the definition of the cause in proof of the cause's existence. This is especially
the case in regard to God, because, in order to prove the existence of anything, it is necessary
to accept as a middle term the meaning of the word, and not its essence, for the question of
its essence follows on the question of its existence. Now the names given to God are derived
from His effects; consequently, in demonstrating the existence of God from His effects, we
may take for the middle term the meaning of the word "God".

Reply Obj. 3: From effects not proportionate to the cause no perfect knowledge of that cause
can be obtained. Yet from every effect the existence of the cause can be clearly demonstrated,
and so we can demonstrate the existence of God from His effects; though from them we cannot
perfectly know God as He is in His essence.

THIRD ARTICLE [I, Q. 2, Art. 3]

Whether God Exists?

Objection 1: It seems that God does not exist; because if one of two contraries be infinite,
the other would be altogether destroyed. But the word "God" means that He is infinite goodness.
If, therefore, God existed, there would be no evil discoverable; but there is evil in the world.
Therefore God does not exist.

Obj. 2: Further, it is superfluous to suppose that what can be accounted for by a few principles
has been produced by many. But it seems that everything we see in the world can be accounted
for by other principles, supposing God did not exist. For all natural things can be reduced
to one principle which is nature; and all voluntary things can be reduced to one principle
which is human reason, or will. Therefore there is no need to suppose God's existence.

On the contrary, It is said in the person of God: "I am Who am." (Ex. 3:14)

I answer that, The existence of God can be proved in five ways.

The first and more manifest way is the argument from motion. It is certain, and evident to
our senses, that in the world some things are in motion. Now whatever is in motion is put in
motion by another, for nothing can be in motion except it is in potentiality to that towards
which it is in motion; whereas a thing moves inasmuch as it is in act. For motion is nothing
else than the reduction of something from potentiality to actuality. But nothing can be reduced
from potentiality to actuality, except by something in a state of actuality. Thus that which
is actually hot, as fire, makes wood, which is potentially hot, to be actually hot, and thereby
moves and changes it. Now it is not possible that the same thing should be at once in actuality
and potentiality in the same respect, but only in different respects. For what is actually
hot cannot simultaneously be potentially hot; but it is simultaneously potentially cold. It
is therefore impossible that in the same respect and in the same way a thing should be both
mover and moved, i.e. that it should move itself. Therefore, whatever is in motion must be
put in motion by another. If that by which it is put in motion be itself put in motion, then
this also must needs be put in motion by another, and that by another again. But this cannot
go on to infinity, because then there would be no first mover, and, consequently, no other
mover; seeing that subsequent movers move only inasmuch as they are put in motion by the first
mover; as the staff moves only because it is put in motion by the hand. Therefore it is necessary
to arrive at a first mover, put in motion by no other; and this everyone understands to be God.

The second way is from the nature of the efficient cause. In the world of sense we find there
is an order of efficient causes. There is no case known (neither is it, indeed, possible) in
which a thing is found to be the efficient cause of itself; for so it would be prior to itself,
which is impossible. Now in efficient causes it is not possible to go on to infinity, because
in all efficient causes following in order, the first is the cause of the intermediate cause,
and the intermediate is the cause of the ultimate cause, whether the intermediate cause be
several, or only one. Now to take away the cause is to take away the effect. Therefore, if
there be no first cause among efficient causes, there will be no ultimate, nor any intermediate
cause. But if in efficient causes it is possible to go on to infinity, there will be no first
efficient cause, neither will there be an ultimate effect, nor any intermediate efficient causes;
all of which is plainly false. Therefore it is necessary to admit a first efficient cause,
to which everyone gives the name of God.

The third way is taken from possibility and necessity, and runs thus. We find in nature things
that are possible to be and not to be, since they are found to be generated, and to corrupt,
and consequently, they are possible to be and not to be. But it is impossible for these always
to exist, for that which is possible not to be at some time is not. Therefore, if everything
is possible not to be, then at one time there could have been nothing in existence. Now if
this were true, even now there would be nothing in existence, because that which does not exist
only begins to exist by something already existing. Therefore, if at one time nothing was in
existence, it would have been impossible for anything to have begun to exist; and thus even
now nothing would be in existence--which is absurd. Therefore, not all beings are merely possible,
but there must exist something the existence of which is necessary. But every necessary thing
either has its necessity caused by another, or not. Now it is impossible to go on to infinity
in necessary things which have their necessity caused by another, as has been already proved
in regard to efficient causes. Therefore we cannot but postulate the existence of some being
having of itself its own necessity, and not receiving it from another, but rather causing in
others their necessity. This all men speak of as God.

The fourth way is taken from the gradation to be found in things. Among beings there are some
more and some less good, true, noble and the like. But more and less are predicated of different
things, according as they resemble in their different ways something which is the maximum,
as a thing is said to be hotter according as it more nearly resembles that which is hottest;
so that there is something which is truest, something best, something noblest and, consequently,
something which is uttermost being; for those things that are greatest in truth are greatest
in being, as it is written in Metaph. ii. Now the maximum in any genus is the cause of all
in that genus; as fire, which is the maximum heat, is the cause of all hot things. Therefore
there must also be something which is to all beings the cause of their being, goodness, and
every other perfection; and this we call God.

The fifth way is taken from the governance of the world. We see that things which lack intelligence,
such as natural bodies, act for an end, and this is evident from their acting always, or nearly
always, in the same way, so as to obtain the best result. Hence it is plain that not fortuitously,
but designedly, do they achieve their end. Now whatever lacks intelligence cannot move towards
an end, unless it be directed by some being endowed with knowledge and intelligence; as the
arrow is shot to its mark by the archer. Therefore some intelligent being exists by whom all
natural things are directed to their end; and this being we call God.

Reply Obj. 1: As Augustine says (Enchiridion xi): "Since God is the highest good, He would
not allow any evil to exist in His works, unless His omnipotence and goodness were such as
to bring good even out of evil." This is part of the infinite goodness of God, that He should
allow evil to exist, and out of it produce good.

Reply Obj. 2: Since nature works for a determinate end under the direction of a higher agent,
whatever is done by nature must needs be traced back to God, as to its first cause. So also
whatever is done voluntarily must also be traced back to some higher cause other than human
reason or will, since these can change or fail; for all things that are changeable and capable
of defect must be traced back to an immovable and self-necessary first principle, as was shown
in the body of the Article.

QUESTION 3

OF THE SIMPLICITY OF GOD (In Eight Articles)

When the existence of a thing has been ascertained there remains the further question of the
manner of its existence, in order that we may know its essence. Now, because we cannot know
what God is, but rather what He is not, we have no means for considering how God is, but rather
how He is not.

Therefore, we must consider:

(1) How He is not;

(2) How He is known by us;

(3) How He is named.

Now it can be shown how God is not, by denying Him whatever is opposed to the idea of Him,
viz. composition, motion, and the like. Therefore

(1) we must discuss His simplicity, whereby we deny composition in Him; and because whatever
is simple in material things is imperfect and a part of something else, we shall discuss (2)
His perfection; (3) His infinity; (4) His immutability; (5) His unity.

Concerning His simplicity, there are eight points of inquiry:

(1) Whether God is a body?

(2) Whether He is composed of matter and form?

(3) Whether in Him there is composition of quiddity, essence or nature, and subject?

(4) Whether He is composed of essence and existence?

(5) Whether He is composed of genus and difference?

(6) Whether He is composed of subject and accident?

(7) Whether He is in any way composite, or wholly simple?

(8) Whether He enters into composition with other things?

FIRST ARTICLE [I, Q. 3, Art. 1]

Whether God Is a Body?

Objection 1: It seems that God is a body. For a body is that which has the three dimensions.
But Holy Scripture attributes the three dimensions to God, for it is written: "He is higher
than Heaven, and what wilt thou do? He is deeper than Hell, and how wilt thou know? The measure
of Him is longer than the earth and broader than the sea" (Job 11:8, 9). Therefore God is a body.

Obj. 2: Further, everything that has figure is a body, since figure is a quality of quantity.
But God seems to have figure, for it is written: "Let us make man to our image and likeness"
(Gen. 1:26). Now a figure is called an image, according to the text: "Who being the brightness
of His glory and the figure," i.e. the image, "of His substance" (Heb. 1:3). Therefore God
is a body.

Obj. 3: Further, whatever has corporeal parts is a body. Now Scripture attributes corporeal
parts to God. "Hast thou an arm like God?" (Job 40:4); and "The eyes of the Lord are upon the
just" (Ps. 33:16); and "The right hand of the Lord hath wrought strength" (Ps. 117:16). Therefore
God is a body.

Obj. 4: Further, posture belongs only to bodies. But something which supposes posture is said
of God in the Scriptures: "I saw the Lord sitting" (Isa. 6:1), and "He standeth up to judge"
(Isa. 3:13). Therefore God is a body.

Obj. 5: Further, only bodies or things corporeal can be a local term wherefrom or whereto.
But in the Scriptures God is spoken of as a local term whereto, according to the words, "Come
ye to Him and be enlightened" (Ps. 33:6), and as a term wherefrom: "All they that depart from
Thee shall be written in the earth" (Jer. 17:13). Therefore God is a body.

On the contrary, It is written in the Gospel of St. John (John 4:24): "God is a spirit."

I answer that, It is absolutely true that God is not a body; and this can be shown in three
ways. First, because no body is in motion unless it be put in motion, as is evident from induction.
Now it has been already proved (Q. 2, A. 3), that God is the First Mover, and is Himself unmoved.
Therefore it is clear that God is not a body. Secondly, because the first being must of necessity
be in act, and in no way in potentiality. For although in any single thing that passes from
potentiality to actuality, the potentiality is prior in time to the actuality; nevertheless,
absolutely speaking, actuality is prior to potentiality; for whatever is in potentiality can
be reduced into actuality only by some being in actuality. Now it has been already proved that
God is the First Being. It is therefore impossible that in God there should be any potentiality.
But every body is in potentiality because the continuous, as such, is divisible to infinity;
it is therefore impossible that God should be a body. Thirdly, because God is the most noble
of beings. Now it is impossible for a body to be the most noble of beings; for a body must
be either animate or inanimate; and an animate body is manifestly nobler than any inanimate
body. But an animate body is not animate precisely as body; otherwise all bodies would be animate.
Therefore its animation depends upon some other thing, as our body depends for its animation
on the soul. Hence that by which a body becomes animated must be nobler than the body. Therefore
it is impossible that God should be a body.

Reply Obj. 1: As we have said above (Q. 1, A. 9), Holy Writ puts before us spiritual and divine
things under the comparison of corporeal things. Hence, when it attributes to God the three
dimensions under the comparison of corporeal quantity, it implies His virtual quantity; thus,
by depth, it signifies His power of knowing hidden things; by height, the transcendence of
His excelling power; by length, the duration of His existence; by breadth, His act of love
for all. Or, as says Dionysius (Div. Nom. ix), by the depth of God is meant the incomprehensibility
of His essence; by length, the procession of His all-pervading power; by breadth, His overspreading
all things, inasmuch as all things lie under His protection.

Reply Obj. 2: Man is said to be after the image of God, not as regards his body, but as regards
that whereby he excels other animals. Hence, when it is said, "Let us make man to our image
and likeness", it is added, "And let him have dominion over the fishes of the sea" (Gen. 1:26).
Now man excels all animals by his reason and intelligence; hence it is according to his intelligence
and reason, which are incorporeal, that man is said to be according to the image of God.

Reply Obj. 3: Corporeal parts are attributed to God in Scripture on account of His actions,
and this is owing to a certain parallel. For instance the act of the eye is to see; hence the
eye attributed to God signifies His power of seeing intellectually, not sensibly; and so on
with the other parts.

Reply Obj. 4: Whatever pertains to posture, also, is only attributed to God by some sort of
parallel. He is spoken of as sitting, on account of His unchangeableness and dominion; and
as standing, on account of His power of overcoming whatever withstands Him.

Reply Obj. 5: We draw near to God by no corporeal steps, since He is everywhere, but by the
affections of our soul, and by the actions of that same soul do we withdraw from Him; thus,
to draw near to or to withdraw signifies merely spiritual actions based on the metaphor of
local motion.

SECOND ARTICLE [I, Q. 3, Art. 2]

Whether God Is Composed of Matter and Form?

Objection 1: It seems that God is composed of matter and form. For whatever has a soul is composed
of matter and form; since the soul is the form of the body. But Scripture attributes a soul
to God; for it is mentioned in Hebrews (Heb. 10:38), where God says: "But My just man liveth
by faith; but if he withdraw himself, he shall not please My soul." Therefore God is composed
of matter and form.

Obj. 2: Further, anger, joy and the like are passions of the composite. But these are attributed
to God in Scripture: "The Lord was exceeding angry with His people" (Ps. 105:40). Therefore
God is composed of matter and form.

Obj. 3: Further, matter is the principle of individualization. But God seems to be individual,
for He cannot be predicated of many. Therefore He is composed of matter and form.

On the contrary, Whatever is composed of matter and form is a body; for dimensive quantity
is the first property of matter. But God is not a body as proved in the preceding Article;
therefore He is not composed of matter and form.

I answer that, It is impossible that matter should exist in God. First, because matter is in
potentiality. But we have shown (Q. 2, A. 3) that God is pure act, without any potentiality.
Hence it is impossible that God should be composed of matter and form. Secondly, because everything
composed of matter and form owes its perfection and goodness to its form; therefore its goodness
is participated, inasmuch as matter participates the form. Now the first good and the best--viz.
God--is not a participated good, because the essential good is prior to the participated good.
Hence it is impossible that God should be composed of matter and form. Thirdly, because every
agent acts by its form; hence the manner in which it has its form is the manner in which it
is an agent. Therefore whatever is primarily and essentially an agent must be primarily and
essentially form. Now God is the first agent, since He is the first efficient cause. He is
therefore of His essence a form; and not composed of matter and form.

Reply Obj. 1: A soul is attributed to God because His acts resemble the acts of a soul; for,
that we will anything, is due to our soul. Hence what is pleasing to His will is said to be
pleasing to His soul.

Reply Obj. 2: Anger and the like are attributed to God on account of a similitude of effect.
Thus, because to punish is properly the act of an angry man, God's punishment is metaphorically
spoken of as His anger.

Reply Obj. 3: Forms which can be received in matter are individualized by matter, which cannot
be in another as in a subject since it is the first underlying subject; although form of itself,
unless something else prevents it, can be received by many. But that form which cannot be received
in matter, but is self-subsisting, is individualized precisely because it cannot be received
in a subject; and such a form is God. Hence it does not follow that matter exists in God.

THIRD ARTICLE [I, Q. 3, Art. 3]

Whether God is the Same as His Essence or Nature?

Objection 1: It seems that God is not the same as His essence or nature. For nothing can be
in itself. But the substance or nature of God--i.e. the Godhead--is said to be in God. Therefore
it seems that God is not the same as His essence or nature.

Obj. 2: Further, the effect is assimilated to its cause; for every agent produces its like.
But in created things the suppositum is not identical with its nature; for a man is not the
same as his humanity. Therefore God is not the same as His Godhead.

On the contrary, It is said of God that He is life itself, and not only that He is a living
thing: "I am the way, the truth, and the life" (John 14:6). Now the relation between Godhead
and God is the same as the relation between life and a living thing. Therefore God is His very
Godhead.

I answer that, God is the same as His essence or nature. To understand this, it must be noted
that in things composed of matter and form, the nature or essence must differ from the suppositum,
because the essence or nature connotes only what is included in the definition of the species;
as, humanity connotes all that is included in the definition of man, for it is by this that
man is man, and it is this that humanity signifies, that, namely, whereby man is man. Now individual
matter, with all the individualizing accidents, is not included in the definition of the species.
For this particular flesh, these bones, this blackness or whiteness, etc., are not included
in the definition of a man. Therefore this flesh, these bones, and the accidental qualities
distinguishing this particular matter, are not included in humanity; and yet they are included
in the thing which is man. Hence the thing which is a man has something more in it than has
humanity. Consequently humanity and a man are not wholly identical; but humanity is taken to
mean the formal part of a man, because the principles whereby a thing is defined are regarded
as the formal constituent in regard to the individualizing matter. On the other hand, in things
not composed of matter and form, in which individualization is not due to individual matter--that
is to say, to this matter--the very forms being individualized of themselves--it is necessary
the forms themselves should be subsisting supposita. Therefore suppositum and nature in them
are identified. Since God then is not composed of matter and form, He must be His own Godhead,
His own Life, and whatever else is thus predicated of Him.

Reply Obj. 1: We can speak of simple things only as though they were like the composite things
from which we derive our knowledge. Therefore in speaking of God, we use concrete nouns to
signify His subsistence, because with us only those things subsist which are composite; and
we use abstract nouns to signify His simplicity. In saying therefore that Godhead, or life,
or the like are in God, we indicate the composite way in which our intellect understands, but
not that there is any composition in God.

Reply Obj. 2: The effects of God do not imitate Him perfectly, but only as far as they are
able; and the imitation is here defective, precisely because what is simple and one, can only
be represented by divers things; consequently, composition is accidental to them, and therefore,
in them suppositum is not the same as nature.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I, Q. 3, Art. 4]

Whether Essence and Existence Are the Same in God?

Objection 1: It seems that essence and existence are not the same in God. For if it be so,
then the divine being has nothing added to it. Now being to which no addition is made is universal
being which is predicated of all things. Therefore it follows that God is being in general
which can be predicated of everything. But this is false: "For men gave the incommunicable
name to stones and wood" (Wis. 14:21). Therefore God's existence is not His essence.

Obj. 2: Further, we can know whether God exists as said above (Q. 2, A. 2); but we cannot know
what He is. Therefore God's existence is not the same as His essence--that is, as His quiddity
or nature.

On the contrary, Hilary says (Trin. vii): "In God existence is not an accidental quality, but
subsisting truth." Therefore what subsists in God is His existence.

I answer that, God is not only His own essence, as shown in the preceding article, but also
His own existence. This may be shown in several ways. First, whatever a thing has besides its
essence must be caused either by the constituent principles of that essence (like a property
that necessarily accompanies the species--as the faculty of laughing is proper to a man--and
is caused by the constituent principles of the species), or by some exterior agent--as heat
is caused in water by fire. Therefore, if the existence of a thing differs from its essence,
this existence must be caused either by some exterior agent or by its essential principles.
Now it is impossible for a thing's existence to be caused by its essential constituent principles,
for nothing can be the sufficient cause of its own existence, if its existence is caused. Therefore
that thing, whose existence differs from its essence, must have its existence caused by another.
But this cannot be true of God; because we call God the first efficient cause. Therefore it
is impossible that in God His existence should differ from His essence. Secondly, existence
is that which makes every form or nature actual; for goodness and humanity are spoken of as
actual, only because they are spoken of as existing. Therefore existence must be compared to
essence, if the latter is a distinct reality, as actuality to potentiality. Therefore, since
in God there is no potentiality, as shown above (A. 1), it follows that in Him essence does
not differ from existence. Therefore His essence is His existence. Thirdly, because, just as
that which has fire, but is not itself fire, is on fire by participation; so that which has
existence but is not existence, is a being by participation. But God is His own essence, as
shown above (A. 3); if, therefore, He is not His own existence He will be not essential, but
participated being. He will not therefore be the first being--which is absurd. Therefore God
is His own existence, and not merely His own essence.

Reply Obj. 1: A thing that has nothing added to it can be of two kinds. Either its essence
precludes any addition; thus, for example, it is of the essence of an irrational animal to
be without reason. Or we may understand a thing to have nothing added to it, inasmuch as its
essence does not require that anything should be added to it; thus the genus animal is without
reason, because it is not of the essence of animal in general to have reason; but neither is
it to lack reason. And so the divine being has nothing added to it in the first sense; whereas
universal being has nothing added to it in the second sense.

Reply Obj. 2: "To be" can mean either of two things. It may mean the act of essence, or it
may mean the composition of a proposition effected by the mind in joining a predicate to a
subject. Taking "to be" in the first sense, we cannot understand God's existence nor His essence;
but only in the second sense. We know that this proposition which we form about God when we
say "God is," is true; and this we know from His effects (Q. 2, A. 2).

FIFTH ARTICLE [I, Q. 3, Art. 5]

Whether God Is Contained in a Genus?

Objection 1: It seems that God is contained in a genus. For a substance is a being that subsists
of itself. But this is especially true of God. Therefore God is in a genus of substance.

Obj. 2: Further, nothing can be measured save by something of its own genus; as length is measured
by length and numbers by number. But God is the measure of all substances, as the Commentator
shows (Metaph. x). Therefore God is in the genus of substance.

On the contrary, In the mind, genus is prior to what it contains. But nothing is prior to God
either really or mentally. Therefore God is not in any genus.

I answer that, A thing can be in a genus in two ways; either absolutely and properly, as a
species contained under a genus; or as being reducible to it, as principles and privations.
For example, a point and unity are reduced to the genus of quantity, as its principles; while
blindness and all other privations are reduced to the genus of habit. But in neither way is
God in a genus. That He cannot be a species of any genus may be shown in three ways. First,
because a species is constituted of genus and difference. Now that from which the difference
constituting the species is derived, is always related to that from which the genus is derived,
as actuality is related to potentiality. For animal is derived from sensitive nature, by concretion
as it were, for that is animal, which has a sensitive nature. Rational being, on the other
hand, is derived from intellectual nature, because that is rational, which has an intellectual
nature, and intelligence is compared to sense, as actuality is to potentiality. The same argument
holds good in other things. Hence since in God actuality is not added to potentiality, it is
impossible that He should be in any genus as a species. Secondly, since the existence of God
is His essence, if God were in any genus, He would be the genus being, because, since genus
is predicated as an essential it refers to the essence of a thing. But the Philosopher has
shown (Metaph. iii) that being cannot be a genus, for every genus has differences distinct
from its generic essence. Now no difference can exist distinct from being; for non-being cannot
be a difference. It follows then that God is not in a genus. Thirdly, because all in one genus
agree in the quiddity or essence of the genus which is predicated of them as an essential,
but they differ in their existence. For the existence of man and of horse is not the same;
as also of this man and that man: thus in every member of a genus, existence and quiddity--i.e.
essence--must differ. But in God they do not differ, as shown in the preceding article. Therefore
it is plain that God is not in a genus as if He were a species. From this it is also plain
that He has no genus nor difference, nor can there be any definition of Him; nor, save through
His effects, a demonstration of Him: for a definition is from genus and difference; and the
mean of a demonstration is a definition. That God is not in a genus, as reducible to it as
its principle, is clear from this, that a principle reducible to any genus does not extend
beyond that genus; as, a point is the principle of continuous quantity alone; and unity, of
discontinuous quantity. But God is the principle of all being. Therefore He is not contained
in any genus as its principle.

Reply Obj. 1: The word substance signifies not only what exists of itself--for existence cannot
of itself be a genus, as shown in the body of the article; but, it also signifies an essence
that has the property of existing in this way--namely, of existing of itself; this existence,
however, is not its essence. Thus it is clear that God is not in the genus of substance.

Reply Obj. 2: This objection turns upon proportionate measure which must be homogeneous with
what is measured. Now, God is not a measure proportionate to anything. Still, He is called
the measure of all things, in the sense that everything has being only according as it resembles
Him.

SIXTH ARTICLE [I, Q. 3, Art. 6]

Whether in God There Are Any Accidents?

Objection 1: It seems that there are accidents in God. For substance cannot be an accident,
as Aristotle says (Phys. i). Therefore that which is an accident in one, cannot, in another,
be a substance. Thus it is proved that heat cannot be the substantial form of fire, because
it is an accident in other things. But wisdom, virtue, and the like, which are accidents in
us, are attributes of God. Therefore in God there are accidents.

Obj. 2: Further, in every genus there is a first principle. But there are many genera of accidents.
If, therefore, the primal members of these genera are not in God, there will be many primal
beings other than God--which is absurd.

On the contrary, Every accident is in a subject. But God cannot be a subject, for "no simple
form can be a subject", as Boethius says (De Trin.). Therefore in God there cannot be any accident.

I answer that, From all we have said, it is clear there can be no accident in God. First, because
a subject is compared to its accidents as potentiality to actuality; for a subject is in some
sense made actual by its accidents. But there can be no potentiality in God, as was shown (Q.
2, A. 3). Secondly, because God is His own existence; and as Boethius says (Hebdom.), although
every essence may have something superadded to it, this cannot apply to absolute being: thus
a heated substance can have something extraneous to heat added to it, as whiteness, nevertheless
absolute heat can have nothing else than heat. Thirdly, because what is essential is prior
to what is accidental. Whence as God is absolute primal being, there can be in Him nothing
accidental. Neither can He have any essential accidents (as the capability of laughing is an
essential accident of man), because such accidents are caused by the constituent principles
of the subject. Now there can be nothing caused in God, since He is the first cause. Hence
it follows that there is no accident in God.

Reply Obj. 1: Virtue and wisdom are not predicated of God and of us univocally. Hence it does
not follow that there are accidents in God as there are in us.

Reply Obj. 2: Since substance is prior to its accidents, the principles of accidents are reducible
to the principles of the substance as to that which is prior; although God is not first as
if contained in the genus of substance; yet He is first in respect to all being, outside of
every genus.

SEVENTH ARTICLE [I, Q. 3, Art. 7]

Whether God Is Altogether Simple?

Objection 1: It seems that God is not altogether simple. For whatever is from God must imitate
Him. Thus from the first being are all beings; and from the first good is all good. But in
the things which God has made, nothing is altogether simple. Therefore neither is God altogether
simple.

Obj. 2: Further, whatever is best must be attributed to God. But with us that which is composite
is better than that which is simple; thus, chemical compounds are better than simple elements,
and animals than the parts that compose them. Therefore it cannot be said that God is altogether
simple.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Trin. iv, 6,7): "God is truly and absolutely simple."

I answer that, The absolute simplicity of God may be shown in many ways. First, from the previous
articles of this question. For there is neither composition of quantitative parts in God, since
He is not a body; nor composition of matter and form; nor does His nature differ from His suppositum;
nor His essence from His existence; neither is there in Him composition of genus and difference,
nor of subject and accident. Therefore, it is clear that God is nowise composite, but is altogether
simple. Secondly, because every composite is posterior to its component parts, and is dependent
on them; but God is the first being, as shown above (Q. 2, A. 3). Thirdly, because every composite
has a cause, for things in themselves different cannot unite unless something causes them to
unite. But God is uncaused, as shown above (Q. 2, A. 3), since He is the first efficient cause.
Fourthly, because in every composite there must be potentiality and actuality; but this does
not apply to God; for either one of the parts actuates another, or at least all the parts are
potential to the whole. Fifthly, because nothing composite can be predicated of any single
one of its parts. And this is evident in a whole made up of dissimilar parts; for no part of
a man is a man, nor any of the parts of the foot, a foot. But in wholes made up of similar
parts, although something which is predicated of the whole may be predicated of a part (as
a part of the air is air, and a part of water, water), nevertheless certain things are predicable
of the whole which cannot be predicated of any of the parts; for instance, if the whole volume
of water is two cubits, no part of it can be two cubits. Thus in every composite there is something
which is not it itself. But, even if this could be said of whatever has a form, viz. that it
has something which is not it itself, as in a white object there is something which does not
belong to the essence of white; nevertheless in the form itself, there is nothing besides itself.
And so, since God is absolute form, or rather absolute being, He can be in no way composite.
Hilary implies this argument, when he says (De Trin. vii): "God, Who is strength, is not made
up of things that are weak; nor is He Who is light, composed of things that are dim."

Reply Obj. 1: Whatever is from God imitates Him, as caused things imitate the first cause.
But it is of the essence of a thing to be in some sort composite; because at least its existence
differs from its essence, as will be shown hereafter, (Q. 4, A. 3).

Reply Obj. 2: With us composite things are better than simple things, because the perfections
of created goodness cannot be found in one simple thing, but in many things. But the perfection
of divine goodness is found in one simple thing (QQ. 4, A. 1, and 6, A. 2).

EIGHTH ARTICLE [I, Q. 3, Art. 8]

Whether God Enters into the Composition of Other Things?

Objection 1: It seems that God enters into the composition of other things, for Dionysius says
(Coel. Hier. iv): "The being of all things is that which is above being--the Godhead." But
the being of all things enters into the composition of everything. Therefore God enters into
the composition of other things.

Obj. 2: Further, God is a form; for Augustine says (De Verb. Dom. [Serm. xxxviii]) that, "the
word of God, which is God, is an uncreated form." But a form is part of a compound. Therefore
God is part of some compound.

Obj. 3: Further, whatever things exist, in no way differing from each other, are the same.
But God and primary matter exist, and in no way differ from each other. Therefore they are
absolutely the same. But primary matter enters into the composition things. Therefore also
does God. Proof of the minor--whatever things differ, they differ by some differences, and
therefore must be composite. But God and primary matter are altogether simple. Therefore they
nowise differ from each other.

On the contrary, Dionysius says (Div. Nom. ii): "There can be no touching Him," i.e. God, "nor
any other union with Him by mingling part with part."

Further, the first cause rules all things without commingling with them, as the Philosopher
says (De Causis).

I answer that, On this point there have been three errors. Some have affirmed that God is the
world-soul, as is clear from Augustine (De Civ. Dei vii, 6). This is practically the same as
the opinion of those who assert that God is the soul of the highest heaven. Again, others have
said that God is the formal principle of all things; and this was the theory of the Almaricians.
The third error is that of David of Dinant, who most absurdly taught that God was primary matter.
Now all these contain manifest untruth; since it is not possible for God to enter into the
composition of anything, either as a formal or a material principle. First, because God is
the first efficient cause. Now the efficient cause is not identical numerically with the form
of the thing caused, but only specifically: for man begets man. But primary matter can be neither
numerically nor specifically identical with an efficient cause; for the former is merely potential,
while the latter is actual. Secondly, because, since God is the first efficient cause, to act
belongs to Him primarily and essentially. But that which enters into composition with anything
does not act primarily and essentially, but rather the composite so acts; for the hand does
not act, but the man by his hand; and, fire warms by its heat. Hence God cannot be part of
a compound. Thirdly, because no part of a compound can be absolutely primal among beings--not
even matter, nor form, though they are the primal parts of every compound. For matter is merely
potential; and potentiality is absolutely posterior to actuality, as is clear from the foregoing
(Q. 3, A. 1): while a form which is part of a compound is a participated form; and as that
which participates is posterior to that which is essential, so likewise is that which is participated;
as fire in ignited objects is posterior to fire that is essentially such. Now it has been proved
that God is absolutely primal being (Q. 2, A. 3).

Reply Obj. 1: The Godhead is called the being of all things, as their efficient and exemplar
cause, but not as being their essence.

Reply Obj. 2: The Word is an exemplar form; but not a form that is part of a compound.

Reply Obj. 3: Simple things do not differ by added differences--for this is the property of
compounds. Thus man and horse differ by their differences, rational and irrational; which differences,
however, do not differ from each other by other differences. Hence, to be quite accurate, it
is better to say that they are, not different, but diverse. Hence, according to the Philosopher
(Metaph. x), "things which are diverse are absolutely distinct, but things which are different
differ by something." Therefore, strictly speaking, primary matter and God do not differ, but
are by their very being, diverse. Hence it does not follow they are the same.

QUESTION 4

THE PERFECTION OF GOD (In Three Articles)

Having considered the divine simplicity, we treat next of God's perfection. Now because everything
in so far as it is perfect is called good, we shall speak first of the divine perfection; secondly
of the divine goodness.

Concerning the first there are three points of inquiry:

(1) Whether God is perfect?

(2) Whether God is perfect universally, as having in Himself the perfections of all things?

(3) Whether creatures can be said to be like God?

FIRST ARTICLE [I, Q. 4, Art. 1]

Whether God is Perfect?

Objection 1: It seems that perfection does not belong to God. For we say a thing is perfect
if it is completely made. But it does not befit God to be made. Therefore He is not perfect.

Obj. 2: Further, God is the first beginning of things. But the beginnings of things seem to
be imperfect, as seed is the beginning of animal and vegetable life. Therefore God is imperfect.

Obj. 3: Further, as shown above (Q. 3, A. 4), God's essence is existence. But existence seems
most imperfect, since it is most universal and receptive of all modification. Therefore God
is imperfect.

On the contrary, It is written: "Be you perfect as also your heavenly Father is perfect" (Matt.
5:48).

I answer that, As the Philosopher relates (Metaph. xii), some ancient philosophers, namely,
the Pythagoreans and Leucippus, did not predicate "best" and "most perfect" of the first principle.
The reason was that the ancient philosophers considered only a material principle; and a material
principle is most imperfect. For since matter as such is merely potential, the first material
principle must be simply potential, and thus most imperfect. Now God is the first principle,
not material, but in the order of efficient cause, which must be most perfect. For just as
matter, as such, is merely potential, an agent, as such, is in the state of actuality. Hence,
the first active principle must needs be most actual, and therefore most perfect; for a thing
is perfect in proportion to its state of actuality, because we call that perfect which lacks
nothing of the mode of its perfection.

Reply Obj. 1: As Gregory says (Moral. v, 26,29): "Though our lips can only stammer, we yet
chant the high things of God." For that which is not made is improperly called perfect. Nevertheless
because created things are then called perfect, when from potentiality they are brought into
actuality, this word "perfect" signifies whatever is not wanting in actuality, whether this
be by way of perfection or not.

Reply Obj. 2: The material principle which with us is found to be imperfect, cannot be absolutely
primal; but must be preceded by something perfect. For seed, though it be the principle of
animal life reproduced through seed, has previous to it, the animal or plant from which is
came. Because, previous to that which is potential, must be that which is actual; since a potential
being can only be reduced into act by some being already actual.

Reply Obj. 3: Existence is the most perfect of all things, for it is compared to all things
as that by which they are made actual; for nothing has actuality except so far as it exists.
Hence existence is that which actuates all things, even their forms. Therefore it is not compared
to other things as the receiver is to the received; but rather as the received to the receiver.
When therefore I speak of the existence of man, or horse, or anything else, existence is considered
a formal principle, and as something received; and not as that which exists.

SECOND ARTICLE [I, Q. 4, Art. 2]

Whether the Perfections of All Things Are in God?

Objection 1: It seems that the perfections of all things are not in God. For God is simple,
as shown above (Q. 3, A. 7); whereas the perfections of things are many and diverse. Therefore
the perfections of all things are not in God.

Obj. 2: Further, opposites cannot coexist. Now the perfections of things are opposed to each
other, for each thing is perfected by its specific difference. But the differences by which
genera are divided, and species constituted, are opposed to each other. Therefore because opposites
cannot coexist in the same subject, it seems that the perfections of all things are not in God.

Obj. 3: Further, a living thing is more perfect than what merely exists; and an intelligent
thing than what merely lives. Therefore life is more perfect than existence; and knowledge
than life. But the essence of God is existence itself. Therefore He has not the perfections
of life, and knowledge, and other similar perfections.

On the contrary, Dionysius says (Div. Nom. v) that "God in His one existence prepossesses all
things."

I answer that, All created perfections are in God. Hence He is spoken of as universally perfect,
because He lacks not (says the Commentator, Metaph. v) any excellence which may be found in
any genus. This may be seen from two considerations. First, because whatever perfection exists
in an effect must be found in the effective cause: either in the same formality, if it is a
univocal agent--as when man reproduces man; or in a more eminent degree, if it is an equivocal
agent--thus in the sun is the likeness of whatever is generated by the sun's power. Now it
is plain that the effect pre-exists virtually in the efficient cause: and although to pre-exist
in the potentiality of a material cause is to pre-exist in a more imperfect way, since matter
as such is imperfect, and an agent as such is perfect; still to pre-exist virtually in the
efficient cause is to pre-exist not in a more imperfect, but in a more perfect way. Since therefore
God is the first effective cause of things, the perfections of all things must pre-exist in
God in a more eminent way. Dionysius implies the same line of argument by saying of God (Div.
Nom. v): "It is not that He is this and not that, but that He is all, as the cause of all."
Secondly, from what has been already proved, God is existence itself, of itself subsistent
(Q. 3, A. 4). Consequently, He must contain within Himself the whole perfection of being. For
it is clear that if some hot thing has not the whole perfection of heat, this is because heat
is not participated in its full perfection; but if this heat were self-subsisting, nothing
of the virtue of heat would be wanting to it. Since therefore God is subsisting being itself,
nothing of the perfection of being can be wanting to Him. Now all created perfections are included
in the perfection of being; for things are perfect, precisely so far as they have being after
some fashion. It follows therefore that the perfection of no one thing is wanting to God. This
line of argument, too, is implied by Dionysius (Div. Nom. v), when he says that, "God exists
not in any single mode, but embraces all being within Himself, absolutely, without limitation,
uniformly;" and afterwards he adds that, "He is the very existence to subsisting things."

Reply Obj. 1: Even as the sun (as Dionysius remarks, (Div. Nom. v)), while remaining one and
shining uniformly, contains within itself first and uniformly the substances of sensible things,
and many and diverse qualities; a fortiori should all things in a kind of natural unity pre-exist
in the cause of all things; and thus things diverse and in themselves opposed to each other,
pre-exist in God as one, without injury to His simplicity. This suffices for the Reply to the
Second Objection.

Reply Obj. 3: The same Dionysius says (Div. Nom. v) that, although existence is more perfect
than life, and life than wisdom, if they are considered as distinguished in idea; nevertheless,
a living thing is more perfect than what merely exists, because living things also exist and
intelligent things both exist and live. Although therefore existence does not include life
and wisdom, because that which participates in existence need not participate in every mode
of existence; nevertheless God's existence includes in itself life and wisdom, because nothing
of the perfection of being can be wanting to Him who is subsisting being itself.

THIRD ARTICLE [I, Q. 4, Art. 3]

Whether Any Creature Can Be Like God?

Objection 1: It seems that no creature can be like God. For it is written (Ps. 85:8): "There
is none among the gods like unto Thee, O Lord." But of all creatures the most excellent are
those which are called by participation gods. Therefore still less can other creatures be said
to be like God.

Obj. 2: Further, likeness implies comparison. But there can be no comparison between things
in a different genus. Therefore neither can there be any likeness. Thus we do not say that
sweetness is like whiteness. But no creature is in the same genus as God: since God is no genus,
as shown above (Q. 3, A. 5). Therefore no creature is like God.

Obj. 3: Further, we speak of those things as like which agree in form. But nothing can agree
with God in form; for, save in God alone, essence and existence differ. Therefore no creature
can be like to God.

Obj. 4: Further, among like things there is mutual likeness; for like is like to like. If therefore
any creature is like God, God will be like some creature, which is against what is said by
Isaias: "To whom have you likened God?" (Isa. 40:18). (1 John 3:2).

I answer that, Since likeness is based upon agreement or communication in form, it varies according
to the many modes of communication in form. Some things are said to be like, which communicate
in the same form according to the same formality, and according to the same mode; and these
are said to be not merely like, but equal in their likeness; as two things equally white are
said to be alike in whiteness; and this is the most perfect likeness. In another way, we speak
of things as alike which communicate in form according to the same formality, though not according
to the same measure, but according to more or less, as something less white is said to be like
another thing more white; and this is imperfect likeness. In a third way some things are said
to be alike which communicate in the same form, but not according to the same formality; as
we see in non-univocal agents. For since every agent reproduces itself so far as it is an agent,
and everything acts according to the manner of its form, the effect must in some way resemble
the form of the agent. If therefore the agent is contained in the same species as its effect,
there will be a likeness in form between that which makes and that which is made, according
to the same formality of the species; as man reproduces man. If, however, the agent and its
effect are not contained in the same species, there will be a likeness, but not according to
the formality of the same species; as things generated by the sun's heat may be in some sort
spoken of as like the sun, not as though they received the form of the sun in its specific
likeness, but in its generic likeness. Therefore if there is an agent not contained in any
genus, its effect will still more distantly reproduce the form of the agent, not, that is,
so as to participate in the likeness of the agent's form according to the same specific or
generic formality, but only according to some sort of analogy; as existence is common to all.
In this way all created things, so far as they are beings, are like God as the first and universal
principle of all being.

Reply Obj. 1: As Dionysius says (Div. Nom. ix), when Holy Writ declares that nothing is like
God, it does not mean to deny all likeness to Him. For, "the same things can be like and unlike
to God: like, according as they imitate Him, as far as He, Who is not perfectly imitable, can
be imitated; unlike according as they fall short of their cause," not merely in intensity and
remission, as that which is less white falls short of that which is more white; but because
they are not in agreement, specifically or generically.

Reply Obj. 2: God is not related to creatures as though belonging to a different genus, but
as transcending every genus, and as the principle of all genera.

Reply Obj. 3: Likeness of creatures to God is not affirmed on account of agreement in form
according to the formality of the same genus or species, but solely according to analogy, inasmuch
as God is essential being, whereas other things are beings by participation.

Reply Obj. 4: Although it may be admitted that creatures are in some sort like God, it must
nowise be admitted that God is like creatures; because, as Dionysius says (Div. Nom. ix): "A
mutual likeness may be found between things of the same order, but not between a cause and
that which is caused." For, we say that a statue is like a man, but not conversely; so also
a creature can be spoken of as in some sort like God; but not that God is like a creature.

QUESTION 5

OF GOODNESS IN GENERAL (In Six Articles)

We next consider goodness: First, goodness in general. Secondly, the goodness of God.

Under the first head there are six points of inquiry:

(1) Whether goodness and being are the same really?

(2) Granted that they differ only in idea, which is prior in thought?

(3) Granted that being is prior, whether every being is good?

(4) To what cause should goodness be reduced?

(5) Whether goodness consists in mode, species, and order?

(6) Whether goodness is divided into the virtuous, the useful, and the pleasant?

FIRST ARTICLE [I, Q. 5, Art. 1]

Whether Goodness Differs Really from Being?

Objection 1: It seems that goodness differs really from being. For Boethius says (De Hebdom.):
"I perceive that in nature the fact that things are good is one thing: that they are is another."
Therefore goodness and being really differ.

Obj. 2: Further, nothing can be its own form. "But that is called good which has the form of
being," according to the commentary on De Causis. Therefore goodness differs really from being.

Obj. 3: Further, goodness can be more or less. But being cannot be more or less. Therefore
goodness differs really from being.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Doctr. Christ. i, 42) that, "inasmuch as we exist we are good."

I answer that, Goodness and being are really the same, and differ only in idea; which is clear
from the following argument. The essence of goodness consists in this, that it is in some way
desirable. Hence the Philosopher says (Ethic. i): "Goodness is what all desire." Now it is
clear that a thing is desirable only in so far as it is perfect; for all desire their own perfection.
But everything is perfect so far as it is actual. Therefore it is clear that a thing is perfect
so far as it exists; for it is existence that makes all things actual, as is clear from the
foregoing (Q. 3, A. 4; Q. 4, A. 1). Hence it is clear that goodness and being are the same
really. But goodness presents the aspect of desirableness, which being does not present.

Reply Obj. 1: Although goodness and being are the same really, nevertheless since they differ
in thought, they are not predicated of a thing absolutely in the same way. Since being properly
signifies that something actually is, and actuality properly correlates to potentiality; a
thing is, in consequence, said simply to have being, accordingly as it is primarily distinguished
from that which is only in potentiality; and this is precisely each thing's substantial being.
Hence by its substantial being, everything is said to have being simply; but by any further
actuality it is said to have being relatively. Thus to be white implies relative being, for
to be white does not take a thing out of simply potential being; because only a thing that
actually has being can receive this mode of being. But goodness signifies perfection which
is desirable; and consequently of ultimate perfection. Hence that which has ultimate perfection
is said to be simply good; but that which has not the ultimate perfection it ought to have
(although, in so far as it is at all actual, it has some perfection), is not said to be perfect
simply nor good simply, but only relatively. In this way, therefore, viewed in its primal (i.e.
substantial) being a thing is said to be simply, and to be good relatively (i.e. in so far
as it has being) but viewed in its complete actuality, a thing is said to be relatively, and
to be good simply. Because, regarded in its primal actuality, a thing simply exists; and regarded
in its complete actuality, it is good simply--in such sort that even in its primal actuality,
it is in some sort good, and even in its complete actuality, it in some sort has being.

Reply Obj. 2: Goodness is a form so far as absolute goodness signifies complete actuality.

Reply Obj. 3: Again, goodness is spoken of as more or less according to a thing's superadded
actuality, for example, as to knowledge or virtue.

SECOND ARTICLE [I, Q. 5, Art. 2]

Whether Goodness Is Prior in Idea to Being?

Objection 1: It seems that goodness is prior in idea to being. For names are arranged according
to the arrangement of the things signified by the names. But Dionysius (Div. Nom. iii) assigned
the first place, amongst the other names of God, to His goodness rather than to His being.
Therefore in idea goodness is prior to being.

Obj. 2: Further, that which is the more extensive is prior in idea. But goodness is more extensive
than being, because, as Dionysius notes (Div. Nom. v), "goodness extends to things both existing
and non-existing; whereas existence extends to existing things alone." Therefore goodness is
in idea prior to being.

Obj. 3: Further, what is the more universal is prior in idea. But goodness seems to be more
universal than being, since goodness has the aspect of desirable; whereas to some non-existence
is desirable; for it is said of Judas: "It were better for him, if that man had not been born"
(Matt. 26:24). Therefore in idea goodness is prior to being.

Obj. 4: Further, not only is existence desirable, but life, knowledge, and many other things
besides. Thus it seems that existence is a particular appetible, and goodness a universal appetible.
Therefore, absolutely, goodness is prior in idea to being.

On the contrary, It is said by Aristotle (De Causis) that "the first of created things is being."

I answer that, In idea being is prior to goodness. For the meaning signified by the name of
a thing is that which the mind conceives of the thing and intends by the word that stands for
it. Therefore, that is prior in idea, which is first conceived by the intellect. Now the first
thing conceived by the intellect is being; because everything is knowable only inasmuch as
it is in actuality. Hence, being is the proper object of the intellect, and is primarily intelligible;
as sound is that which is primarily audible. Therefore in idea being is prior to goodness.

Reply Obj. 1: Dionysius discusses the Divine Names (Div. Nom. i, iii) as implying some causal
relation in God; for we name God, as he says, from creatures, as a cause from its effects.
But goodness, since it has the aspect of desirable, implies the idea of a final cause, the
causality of which is first among causes, since an agent does not act except for some end;
and by an agent matter is moved to its form. Hence the end is called the cause of causes. Thus
goodness, as a cause, is prior to being, as is the end to the form. Therefore among the names
signifying the divine causality, goodness precedes being. Again, according to the Platonists,
who, through not distinguishing primary matter from privation, said that matter was non-being,
goodness is more extensively participated than being; for primary matter participates in goodness
as tending to it, for all seek their like; but it does not participate in being, since it is
presumed to be non-being. Therefore Dionysius says that "goodness extends to non-existence"
(Div. Nom. v).

Reply Obj. 2: The same solution is applied to this objection. Or it may be said that goodness
extends to existing and non-existing things, not so far as it can be predicated of them, but
so far as it can cause them--if, indeed, by non-existence we understand not simply those things
which do not exist, but those which are potential, and not actual. For goodness has the aspect
of the end, in which not only actual things find their completion, but also towards which tend
even those things which are not actual, but merely potential. Now being implies the habitude
of a formal cause only, either inherent or exemplar; and its causality does not extend save
to those things which are actual.

Reply Obj. 3: Non-being is desirable, not of itself, but only relatively--i.e. inasmuch as
the removal of an evil, which can only be removed by non-being, is desirable. Now the removal
of an evil cannot be desirable, except so far as this evil deprives a thing of some being.
Therefore being is desirable of itself; and non-being only relatively, inasmuch as one seeks
some mode of being of which one cannot bear to be deprived; thus even non-being can be spoken
of as relatively good.

Reply Obj. 4: Life, wisdom, and the like, are desirable only so far as they are actual. Hence,
in each one of them some sort of being is desired. And thus nothing can be desired except being;
and consequently nothing is good except being.

THIRD ARTICLE [I, Q. 5, Art. 3]

Whether Every Being Is Good?

Objection 1: It seems that not every being is good. For goodness is something superadded to
being, as is clear from A. 1. But whatever is added to being limits it; as substance, quantity,
quality, etc. Therefore goodness limits being. Therefore not every being is good.

Obj. (Isa. 5:20). But some things are called evil. Therefore not every being is good.

Obj. 3: Further, goodness implies desirability. Now primary matter does not imply desirability,
but rather that which desires. Therefore primary matter does not contain the formality of goodness.
Therefore not every being is good.

Obj. 4: Further, the Philosopher notes (Metaph. iii) that "in mathematics goodness does not
exist." But mathematics are entities; otherwise there would be no science of mathematics. Therefore
not every being is good.

On the contrary, Every being that is not God is God's creature. Now every creature of God is
good (1 Tim. 4:4): and God is the greatest good. Therefore every being is good.

I answer that, Every being, as being, is good. For all being, as being, has actuality and is
in some way perfect; since every act implies some sort of perfection; and perfection implies
desirability and goodness, as is clear from A. 1. Hence it follows that every being as such
is good.

Reply Obj. 1: Substance, quantity, quality, and everything included in them, limit being by
applying it to some essence or nature. Now in this sense, goodness does not add anything to
being beyond the aspect of desirability and perfection, which is also proper to being, whatever
kind of nature it may be. Hence goodness does not limit being.

Reply Obj. 2: No being can be spoken of as evil, formally as being, but only so far as it lacks
being. Thus a man is said to be evil, because he lacks some virtue; and an eye is said to be
evil, because it lacks the power to see well.

Reply Obj. 3: As primary matter has only potential being, so it is only potentially good. Although,
according to the Platonists, primary matter may be said to be a non-being on account of the
privation attaching to it, nevertheless, it does participate to a certain extent in goodness,
viz. by its relation to, or aptitude for, goodness. Consequently, to be desirable is not its
property, but to desire.

Reply Obj. 4: Mathematical entities do not subsist as realities; because they would be in some
sort good if they subsisted; but they have only logical existence, inasmuch as they are abstracted
from motion and matter; thus they cannot have the aspect of an end, which itself has the aspect
of moving another. Nor is it repugnant that there should be in some logical entity neither
goodness nor form of goodness; since the idea of being is prior to the idea of goodness, as
was said in the preceding article.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I, Q. 5, Art. 4]

Whether Goodness Has the Aspect of a Final Cause?

Objection 1: It seems that goodness has not the aspect of a final cause, but rather of the
other causes. For, as Dionysius says (Div. Nom. iv), "Goodness is praised as beauty." But beauty
has the aspect of a formal cause. Therefore goodness has the aspect of a formal cause.

Obj. 2: Further, goodness is self-diffusive; for Dionysius says (Div. Nom. iv) that goodness
is that whereby all things subsist, and are. But to be self-giving implies the aspect of an
efficient cause. Therefore goodness has the aspect of an efficient cause.

Obj. 3: Further, Augustine says (De Doctr. Christ. i, 31) that "we exist because God is good."
But we owe our existence to God as the efficient cause. Therefore goodness implies the aspect
of an efficient cause.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Phys. ii) that "that is to be considered as the end
and the good of other things, for the sake of which something is." Therefore goodness has the
aspect of a final cause.

I answer that, Since goodness is that which all things desire, and since this has the aspect
of an end, it is clear that goodness implies the aspect of an end. Nevertheless, the idea of
goodness presupposes the idea of an efficient cause, and also of a formal cause. For we see
that what is first in causing, is last in the thing caused. Fire, e.g. heats first of all before
it reproduces the form of fire; though the heat in the fire follows from its substantial form.
Now in causing, goodness and the end come first, both of which move the agent to act; secondly,
the action of the agent moving to the form; thirdly, comes the form. Hence in that which is
caused the converse ought to take place, so that there should be first, the form whereby it
is a being; secondly, we consider in it its effective power, whereby it is perfect in being,
for a thing is perfect when it can reproduce its like, as the Philosopher says (Meteor. iv);
thirdly, there follows the formality of goodness which is the basic principle of its perfection.

Reply Obj. 1: Beauty and goodness in a thing are identical fundamentally; for they are based
upon the same thing, namely, the form; and consequently goodness is praised as beauty. But
they differ logically, for goodness properly relates to the appetite (goodness being what all
things desire); and therefore it has the aspect of an end (the appetite being a kind of movement
towards a thing). On the other hand, beauty relates to the cognitive faculty; for beautiful
things are those which please when seen. Hence beauty consists in due proportion; for the senses
delight in things duly proportioned, as in what is after their own kind--because even sense
is a sort of reason, just as is every cognitive faculty. Now since knowledge is by assimilation,
and similarity relates to form, beauty properly belongs to the nature of a formal cause.

Reply Obj. 2: Goodness is described as self-diffusive in the sense that an end is said to move.

Reply Obj. 3: He who has a will is said to be good, so far as he has a good will; because it
is by our will that we employ whatever powers we may have. Hence a man is said to be good,
not by his good understanding; but by his good will. Now the will relates to the end as to
its proper object. Thus the saying, "we exist because God is good" has reference to the final
cause.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I, Q. 5, Art. 5]

Whether the Essence of Goodness Consists in Mode, Species and Order?

Objection 1: It seems that the essence of goodness does not consist in mode, species and order.
For goodness and being differ logically. And to these three can be reduced species, mode and
order, as Augustine says (Gen. ad lit. iv, 3): "Measure fixes the mode of everything, number
gives it its species, and weight gives it rest and stability." Therefore the essence of goodness
does not consist in mode, species and order.

Obj. 2: Further, mode, species and order are themselves good. Therefore if the essence of goodness
consists in mode, species and order, then every mode must have its own mode, species and order.
The same would be the case with species and order in endless succession.

Obj. 3: Further, evil is the privation of mode, species and order. But evil is not the total
absence of goodness. Therefore the essence of goodness does not consist in mode, species and order.

Obj. 4: Further, that wherein consists the essence of goodness cannot be spoken of as evil.
Yet we can speak of an evil mode, species and order. Therefore the essence of goodness does
not consist in mode, species and order.

Obj. 5: Further, mode, species and order are caused by weight, number and measure, as appears
from the quotation from Augustine. But not every good thing has weight, number and measure;
for Ambrose says (Hexam. i, 9): "It is of the nature of light not to have been created in number,
weight and measure." Therefore the essence of goodness does not consist in mode, species and order.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Nat. Boni. iii): "These three--mode, species and order--as
common good things, are in everything God has made; thus, where these three abound the things
are very good; where they are less, the things are less good; where they do not exist at all,
there can be nothing good." But this would not be unless the essence of goodness consisted
in them. Therefore the essence of goodness consists in mode, species and order.

I answer that, Everything is said to be good so far as it is perfect; for in that way only
is it desirable (as shown above, AA. 1, 3). Now a thing is said to be perfect if it lacks nothing
according to the mode of its perfection. But since everything is what it is by its form (and
since the form presupposes certain things, and from the form certain things necessarily follow),
in order for a thing to be perfect and good it must have a form, together with all that precedes
and follows upon that form. Now the form presupposes determination or commensuration of its
principles, whether material or efficient, and this is signified by the mode: hence it is said
that the measure marks the mode. But the form itself is signified by the species; for everything
is placed in its species by its form. Hence the number is said to give the species, for definitions
signifying species are like numbers, according to the Philosopher (Metaph. x); for as a unit
added to, or taken from a number, changes its species, so a difference added to, or taken from
a definition, changes its species. Further, upon the form follows an inclination to the end,
or to an action, or something of the sort; for everything, in so far as it is in act, acts
and tends towards that which is in accordance with its form; and this belongs to weight and
order. Hence the essence of goodness, so far as it consists in perfection, consists also in
mode, species and order.

Reply Obj. 1: These three only follow upon being, so far as it is perfect, and according to
this perfection is it good.

Reply Obj. 2: Mode, species and order are said to be good, and to be beings, not as though
they themselves were subsistences, but because it is through them that other things are both
beings and good. Hence they have no need of other things whereby they are good: for they are
spoken of as good, not as though formally constituted so by something else, but as formally
constituting others good: thus whiteness is not said to be a being as though it were by anything
else; but because, by it, something else has accidental being, as an object that is white.

Reply Obj. 3: Every being is due to some form. Hence, according to every being of a thing is
its mode, species, order. Thus, a man has a mode, species and order as he is white, virtuous,
learned and so on; according to everything predicated of him. But evil deprives a thing of
some sort of being, as blindness deprives us of that being which is sight; yet it does not
destroy every mode, species and order, but only such as follow upon the being of sight.

Reply Obj. 4: Augustine says (De Nat. Boni. xxiii), "Every mode, as mode, is good" (and the
same can be said of species and order). "But an evil mode, species and order are so called
as being less than they ought to be, or as not belonging to that which they ought to belong.
Therefore they are called evil, because they are out of place and incongruous."

Reply Obj. 5: The nature of light is spoken of as being without number, weight and measure,
not absolutely, but in comparison with corporeal things, because the power of light extends
to all corporeal things; inasmuch as it is an active quality of the first body that causes
change, i.e. the heavens.

SIXTH ARTICLE [I, Q. 5, Art. 6]

Whether Goodness Is Rightly Divided into the Virtuous*, the Useful and the Pleasant? [*"Bonum
honestum" is the virtuous good considered as fitting. Cf. II-II, Q. 141, A. 3; Q. 145.]

Objection 1: It seems that goodness is not rightly divided into the virtuous, the useful and
the pleasant. For goodness is divided by the ten predicaments, as the Philosopher says (Ethic.
i). But the virtuous, the useful and the pleasant can be found under one predicament. Therefore
goodness is not rightly divided by them.

Obj. 2: Further, every division is made by opposites. But these three do not seem to be opposites;
for the virtuous is pleasing, and no wickedness is useful; whereas this ought to be the case
if the division were made by opposites, for then the virtuous and the useful would be opposed;
and Tully speaks of this (De Offic. ii). Therefore this division is incorrect.

Obj. 3: Further, where one thing is on account of another, there is only one thing. But the
useful is not goodness, except so far as it is pleasing and virtuous. Therefore the useful
ought not to divided against the pleasant and the virtuous.

On the contrary, Ambrose makes use of this division of goodness (De Offic. i, 9)

I answer that, This division properly concerns human goodness. But if we consider the nature
of goodness from a higher and more universal point of view, we shall find that this division
properly concerns goodness as such. For everything is good so far as it is desirable, and is
a term of the movement of the appetite; the term of whose movement can be seen from a consideration
of the movement of a natural body. Now the movement of a natural body is terminated by the
end absolutely; and relatively by the means through which it comes to the end, where the movement
ceases; so a thing is called a term of movement, so far as it terminates any part of that movement.
Now the ultimate term of movement can be taken in two ways, either as the thing itself towards
which it tends, e.g. a place or form; or a state of rest in that thing. Thus, in the movement
of the appetite, the thing desired that terminates the movement of the appetite relatively,
as a means by which something tends towards another, is called the useful; but that sought
after as the last thing absolutely terminating the movement of the appetite, as a thing towards
which for its own sake the appetite tends, is called the virtuous; for the virtuous is that
which is desired for its own sake; but that which terminates the movement of the appetite in
the form of rest in the thing desired, is called the pleasant.

Reply Obj. 1: Goodness, so far as it is identical with being, is divided by the ten predicaments.
But this division belongs to it according to its proper formality.

Reply Obj. 2: This division is not by opposite things; but by opposite aspects. Now those things
are called pleasing which have no other formality under which they are desirable except the
pleasant, being sometimes hurtful and contrary to virtue. Whereas the useful applies to such
as have nothing desirable in themselves, but are desired only as helpful to something further,
as the taking of bitter medicine; while the virtuous is predicated of such as are desirable
in themselves.

Reply Obj. 3: Goodness is not divided into these three as something univocal to be predicated
equally of them all; but as something analogical to be predicated of them according to priority
and posteriority. Hence it is predicated chiefly of the virtuous; then of the pleasant; and
lastly of the useful.

QUESTION 6

THE GOODNESS OF GOD (In Four Articles)

We next consider the goodness of God; under which head there are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether goodness belongs to God?

(2) Whether God is the supreme good?

(3) Whether He alone is essentially good?

(4) Whether all things are good by the divine goodness?

FIRST ARTICLE [I, Q. 6, Art. 1]

Whether God is good?

Objection 1: It seems that to be good does not belong to God. For goodness consists in mode,
species and order. But these do not seem to belong to God; since God is immense and is not
ordered to anything else. Therefore to be good does not belong to God.

Obj. 2: Further, the good is what all things desire. But all things do not desire God, because
all things do not know Him; and nothing is desired unless it is known. Therefore to be good
does not belong to God.

On the contrary, It is written (Lam. 3:25): "The Lord is good to them that hope in Him, to
the soul that seeketh Him."

I answer that, To be good belongs pre-eminently to God. For a thing is good according to its
desirableness. Now everything seeks after its own perfection; and the perfection and form of
an effect consist in a certain likeness to the agent, since every agent makes its like; and
hence the agent itself is desirable and has the nature of good. For the very thing which is
desirable in it is the participation of its likeness. Therefore, since God is the first effective
cause of all things, it is manifest that the aspect of good and of desirableness belong to
Him; and hence Dionysius (Div. Nom. iv) attributes good to God as to the first efficient cause,
saying that, God is called good "as by Whom all things subsist."

Reply Obj. 1: To have mode, species and order belongs to the essence of caused good; but good
is in God as in its cause, and hence it belongs to Him to impose mode, species and order on
others; wherefore these three things are in God as in their cause.

Reply Obj. 2: All things, by desiring their own perfection, desire God Himself, inasmuch as
the perfections of all things are so many similitudes of the divine being; as appears from
what is said above (Q. 4, A. 3). And so of those things which desire God, some know Him as
He is Himself, and this is proper to the rational creature; others know some participation
of His goodness, and this belongs also to sensible knowledge; others have a natural desire
without knowledge, as being directed to their ends by a higher intelligence.

SECOND ARTICLE [I, Q. 6, Art. 2]

Whether God Is the Supreme Good?

Objection 1: It seems that God is not the supreme good. For the supreme good adds something
to good; otherwise it would belong to every good. But everything which is an addition to anything
else is a compound thing: therefore the supreme good is a compound. But God is supremely simple;
as was shown above (Q. 3, A. 7). Therefore God is not the supreme good.

Obj. 2: Further, "Good is what all desire," as the Philosopher says (Ethic. i, 1). Now what
all desire is nothing but God, Who is the end of all things: therefore there is no other good
but God. This appears also from what is said (Luke 18:19): "None is good but God alone." But
we use the word supreme in comparison with others, as e.g. supreme heat is used in comparison
with all other heats. Therefore God cannot be called the supreme good.

Obj. 3: Further, supreme implies comparison. But things not in the same genus are not comparable;
as, sweetness is not properly greater or less than a line. Therefore, since God is not in the
same genus as other good things, as appears above (QQ. 3, A. 5; 4, A. 3) it seems that God
cannot be called the supreme good in relation to others.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Trin. ii) that, the Trinity of the divine persons is "the
supreme good, discerned by purified minds."

I answer that, God is the supreme good simply, and not only as existing in any genus or order
of things. For good is attributed to God, as was said in the preceding article, inasmuch as
all desired perfections flow from Him as from the first cause. They do not, however, flow from
Him as from a univocal agent, as shown above (Q. 4, A. 2); but as from an agent which does
not agree with its effects either in species or genus. Now the likeness of an effect in the
univocal cause is found uniformly; but in the equivocal cause it is found more excellently,
as, heat is in the sun more excellently than it is in fire. Therefore as good is in God as
in the first, but not the univocal, cause of all things, it must be in Him in a most excellent
way; and therefore He is called the supreme good.

Reply Obj. 1: The supreme good does not add to good any absolute thing, but only a relation.
Now a relation of God to creatures, is not a reality in God, but in the creature; for it is
in God in our idea only: as, what is knowable is so called with relation to knowledge, not
that it depends on knowledge, but because knowledge depends on it. Thus it is not necessary
that there should be composition in the supreme good, but only that other things are deficient
in comparison with it.

Reply Obj. 2: When we say that good is what all desire, it is not to be understood that every
kind of good thing is desired by all; but that whatever is desired has the nature of good.
And when it is said, "None is good but God alone," this is to be understood of essential goodness,
as will be explained in the next article.

Reply Obj. 3: Things not of the same genus are in no way comparable to each other if indeed
they are in different genera. Now we say that God is not in the same genus with other good
things; not that He is any other genus, but that He is outside genus, and is the principle
of every genus; and thus He is compared to others by excess, and it is this kind of comparison
the supreme good implies.

THIRD ARTICLE [I. Q. 6, Art. 3]

Whether to Be Essentially Good Belongs to God Alone?

Objection 1: It seems that to be essentially good does not belong to God alone. For as one
is convertible with being, so is good; as we said above (Q. 5, A. 1). But every being is one
essentially, as appears from the Philosopher (Metaph. iv); therefore every being is good essentially.

Obj. 2: Further, if good is what all things desire, since being itself is desired by all, then
the being of each thing is its good. But everything is a being essentially; therefore every
being is good essentially.

Obj. 3: Further, everything is good by its own goodness. Therefore if there is anything which
is not good essentially, it is necessary to say that its goodness is not its own essence. Therefore
its goodness, since it is a being, must be good; and if it is good by some other goodness,
the same question applies to that goodness also; therefore we must either proceed to infinity,
or come to some goodness which is not good by any other goodness. Therefore the first supposition
holds good. Therefore everything is good essentially.

On the contrary, Boethius says (De Hebdom.), that "all things but God are good by participation."
Therefore they are not good essentially.

I answer that, God alone is good essentially. For everything is called good according to its
perfection. Now perfection of a thing is threefold: first, according to the constitution of
its own being; secondly, in respect of any accidents being added as necessary for its perfect
operation; thirdly, perfection consists in the attaining to something else as the end. Thus,
for instance, the first perfection of fire consists in its existence, which it has through
its own substantial form; its secondary perfection consists in heat, lightness and dryness,
and the like; its third perfection is to rest in its own place. This triple perfection belongs
to no creature by its own essence; it belongs to God only, in Whom alone essence is existence;
in Whom there are no accidents; since whatever belongs to others accidentally belongs to Him
essentially; as, to be powerful, wise and the like, as appears from what is stated above (Q.
3, A. 6); and He is not directed to anything else as to an end, but is Himself the last end
of all things. Hence it is manifest that God alone has every kind of perfection by His own
essence; therefore He Himself alone is good essentially.

Reply Obj. 1: "One" does not include the idea of perfection, but only of indivision, which
belongs to everything according to its own essence. Now the essences of simple things are undivided
both actually and potentially, but the essences of compounds are undivided only actually; and
therefore everything must be one essentially, but not good essentially, as was shown above.

Reply Obj. 2: Although everything is good in that it has being, yet the essence of a creature
is not very being; and therefore it does not follow that a creature is good essentially.

Reply Obj. 3: The goodness of a creature is not its very essence, but something superadded;
it is either its existence, or some added perfection, or the order to its end. Still, the goodness
itself thus added is good, just as it is being. But for this reason is it called being because
by it something has being, not because it itself has being through something else: hence for
this reason is it called good because by it something is good, and not because it itself has
some other goodness whereby it is good.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I, Q. 6, Art. 4]

Whether All Things Are Good by the Divine Goodness?

Objection 1: It seems that all things are good by the divine goodness. For Augustine says (De
Trin. viii), "This and that are good; take away this and that, and see good itself if thou
canst; and so thou shalt see God, good not by any other good, but the good of every good."
But everything is good by its own good; therefore everything is good by that very good which
is God.

Obj. 2: Further, as Boethius says (De Hebdom.), all things are called good, accordingly as
they are directed to God, and this is by reason of the divine goodness; therefore all things
are good by the divine goodness.

On the contrary, All things are good, inasmuch as they have being. But they are not called
beings through the divine being, but through their own being; therefore all things are not
good by the divine goodness, but by their own goodness.

I answer that, As regards relative things, we must admit extrinsic denomination; as, a thing
is denominated "placed" from "place," and "measured" from "measure." But as regards absolute
things opinions differ. Plato held the existence of separate ideas (Q. 84, A. 4) of all things,
and that individuals were denominated by them as participating in the separate ideas; for instance,
that Socrates is called man according to the separate idea of man. Now just as he laid down
separate ideas of man and horse which he called absolute man and absolute horse, so likewise
he laid down separate ideas of "being" and of "one," and these he called absolute being and
absolute oneness; and by participation of these, everything was called "being" or "one"; and
what was thus absolute being and absolute one, he said was the supreme good. And because good
is convertible with being, as one is also; he called God the absolute good, from whom all things
are called good by way of participation.

Although this opinion appears to be unreasonable in affirming separate ideas of natural things
as subsisting of themselves--as Aristotle argues in many ways--still, it is absolutely true
that there is first something which is essentially being and essentially good, which we call
God, as appears from what is shown above (Q. 2, A. 3), and Aristotle agrees with this. Hence
from the first being, essentially such, and good, everything can be called good and a being,
inasmuch as it participates in it by way of a certain assimilation which is far removed and
defective; as appears from the above (Q. 4, A. 3).

Everything is therefore called good from the divine goodness, as from the first exemplary effective
and final principle of all goodness. Nevertheless, everything is called good by reason of the
similitude of the divine goodness belonging to it, which is formally its own goodness, whereby
it is denominated good. And so of all things there is one goodness, and yet many goodnesses.

This is a sufficient Reply to the Objections.

QUESTION 7

THE INFINITY OF GOD (In Four Articles)

After considering the divine perfection we must consider the divine infinity, and God's existence
in things: for God is everywhere, and in all things, inasmuch as He is boundless and infinite.

Concerning the first, there are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether God is infinite?

(2) Whether anything besides Him is infinite in essence?

(3) Whether anything can be infinitude in magnitude?

(4) Whether an infinite multitude can exist?

FIRST ARTICLE [I, Q. 7, Art. 1]

Whether God Is Infinite?

Objection 1: It seems that God is not infinite. For everything infinite is imperfect, as the
Philosopher says; because it has parts and matter, as is said in Phys. iii. But God is most
perfect; therefore He is not infinite.

Obj. 2: Further, according to the Philosopher (Phys. i), finite and infinite belong to quantity.
But there is no quantity in God, for He is not a body, as was shown above (Q. 3, A. 1). Therefore
it does not belong to Him to be infinite.

Obj. 3: Further, what is here in such a way as not to be elsewhere, is finite according to
place. Therefore that which is a thing in such a way as not to be another thing, is finite
according to substance. But God is this, and not another; for He is not a stone or wood. Therefore
God is not infinite in substance.

On the contrary, Damascene says (De Fide Orth. i, 4) that "God is infinite and eternal, and
boundless."

I answer that, All the ancient philosophers attribute infinitude to the first principle, as
is said (Phys. iii), and with reason; for they considered that things flow forth infinitely
from the first principle. But because some erred concerning the nature of the first principle,
as a consequence they erred also concerning its infinity; forasmuch as they asserted that matter
was the first principle; consequently they attributed to the first principle a material infinity
to the effect that some infinite body was the first principle of things.

We must consider therefore that a thing is called infinite because it is not finite. Now matter
is in a way made finite by form, and the form by matter. Matter indeed is made finite by form,
inasmuch as matter, before it receives its form, is in potentiality to many forms; but on receiving
a form, it is terminated by that one. Again, form is made finite by matter, inasmuch as form,
considered in itself, is common to many; but when received in matter, the form is determined
to this one particular thing. Now matter is perfected by the form by which it is made finite;
therefore infinite as attributed to matter, has the nature of something imperfect; for it is
as it were formless matter. On the other hand, form is not made perfect by matter, but rather
is contracted by matter; and hence the infinite, regarded on the part of the form not determined
by matter, has the nature of something perfect. Now being is the most formal of all things,
as appears from what is shown above (Q. 4, A. 1, Obj. 3). Since therefore the divine being
is not a being received in anything, but He is His own subsistent being as was shown above
(Q. 3, A. 4), it is clear that God Himself is infinite and perfect.

From this appears the Reply to the First Objection.

Reply Obj. 2: Quantity is terminated by its form, which can be seen in the fact that a figure
which consists in quantity terminated, is a kind of quantitative form. Hence the infinite of
quantity is the infinite of matter; such a kind of infinite cannot be attributed to God; as
was said above, in this article.

Reply Obj. 3: The fact that the being of God is self-subsisting, not received in any other,
and is thus called infinite, shows Him to be distinguished from all other beings, and all others
to be apart from Him. Even so, were there such a thing as a self-subsisting whiteness, the
very fact that it did not exist in anything else, would make it distinct from every other whiteness
existing in a subject.

SECOND ARTICLE [I, Q. 7, Art. 2]

Whether Anything but God Can Be Essentially Infinite?

Objection 1: It seems that something else besides God can be essentially infinite. For the
power of anything is proportioned to its essence. Now if the essence of God is infinite, His
power must also be infinite. Therefore He can produce an infinite effect, since the extent
of a power is known by its effect.

Obj. 2: Further, whatever has infinite power, has an infinite essence. Now the created intellect
has an infinite power; for it apprehends the universal, which can extend itself to an infinitude
of singular things. Therefore every created intellectual substance is infinite.

Obj. 3: Further, primary matter is something other than God, as was shown above (Q. 3, A. 8).
But primary matter is infinite. Therefore something besides God can be infinite.

On the contrary, The infinite cannot have a beginning, as said in Phys. iii. But everything
outside God is from God as from its first principle. Therefore besides God nothing can be infinite.

I answer that, Things other than God can be relatively infinite, but not absolutely infinite.
For with regard to infinite as applied to matter, it is manifest that everything actually existing
possesses a form; and thus its matter is determined by form. But because matter, considered
as existing under some substantial form, remains in potentiality to many accidental forms,
which is absolutely finite can be relatively infinite; as, for example, wood is finite according
to its own form, but still it is relatively infinite, inasmuch as it is in potentiality to
an infinite number of shapes. But if we speak of the infinite in reference to form, it is manifest
that those things, the forms of which are in matter, are absolutely finite, and in no way infinite.
If, however, any created forms are not received into matter, but are self-subsisting, as some
think is the case with angels, these will be relatively infinite, inasmuch as such kinds of
forms are not terminated, nor contracted by any matter. But because a created form thus subsisting
has being, and yet is not its own being, it follows that its being is received and contracted
to a determinate nature. Hence it cannot be absolutely infinite.

Reply Obj. 1: It is against the nature of a made thing for its essence to be its existence;
because subsisting being is not a created being; hence it is against the nature of a made thing
to be absolutely infinite. Therefore, as God, although He has infinite power, cannot make a
thing to be not made (for this would imply that two contradictories are true at the same time),
so likewise He cannot make anything to be absolutely infinite.

Reply Obj. 2: The fact that the power of the intellect extends itself in a way to infinite
things, is because the intellect is a form not in matter, but either wholly separated from
matter, as is the angelic substance, or at least an intellectual power, which is not the act
of any organ, in the intellectual soul joined to a body.

Reply Obj. 3: Primary matter does not exist by itself in nature, since it is not actually being,
but potentially only; hence it is something concreated rather than created. Nevertheless, primary
matter even as a potentiality is not absolutely infinite, but relatively, because its potentiality
extends only to natural forms.

THIRD ARTICLE [I, Q. 7, Art. 3]

Whether an Actually Infinite Magnitude Can Exist?

Objection 1: It seems that there can be something actually infinite in magnitude. For in mathematics
there is no error, since "there is no lie in things abstract," as the Philosopher says (Phys.
ii). But mathematics uses the infinite in magnitude; thus, the geometrician in his demonstrations
says, "Let this line be infinite." Therefore it is not impossible for a thing to be infinite
in magnitude.

Obj. 2: Further, what is not against the nature of anything, can agree with it. Now to be infinite
is not against the nature of magnitude; but rather both the finite and the infinite seem to
be properties of quantity. Therefore it is not impossible for some magnitude to be infinite.

Obj. 3: Further, magnitude is infinitely divisible, for the continuous is defined that which
is infinitely divisible, as is clear from Phys. iii. But contraries are concerned about one
and the same thing. Since therefore addition is opposed to division, and increase opposed to
diminution, it appears that magnitude can be increased to infinity. Therefore it is possible
for magnitude to be infinite.

Obj. 4: Further, movement and time have quantity and continuity derived from the magnitude
over which movement passes, as is said in Phys. iv. But it is not against the nature of time
and movement to be infinite, since every determinate indivisible in time and circular movement
is both a beginning and an end. Therefore neither is it against the nature of magnitude to
be infinite.

On the contrary, Every body has a surface. But every body which has a surface is finite; because
surface is the term of a finite body. Therefore all bodies are finite. The same applies both
to surface and to a line. Therefore nothing is infinite in magnitude.

I answer that, It is one thing to be infinite in essence, and another to be infinite in magnitude.
For granted that a body exists infinite in magnitude, as fire or air, yet this could not be
infinite in essence, because its essence would be terminated in a species by its form, and
confined to individuality by matter. And so assuming from these premises that no creature is
infinite in essence, it still remains to inquire whether any creature can be infinite in magnitude.

We must therefore observe that a body, which is a complete magnitude, can be considered in
two ways; mathematically, in respect to its quantity only; and naturally, as regards its matter
and form.

Now it is manifest that a natural body cannot be actually infinite. For every natural body
has some determined substantial form. Since therefore the accidents follow upon the substantial
form, it is necessary that determinate accidents should follow upon a determinate form; and
among these accidents is quantity. So every natural body has a greater or smaller determinate
quantity. Hence it is impossible for a natural body to be infinite. The same appears from movement;
because every natural body has some natural movement; whereas an infinite body could not have
any natural movement; neither direct, because nothing moves naturally by a direct movement
unless it is out of its place; and this could not happen to an infinite body, for it would
occupy every place, and thus every place would be indifferently its own place. Neither could
it move circularly; forasmuch as circular motion requires that one part of the body is necessarily
transferred to a place occupied by another part, and this could not happen as regards an infinite
circular body: for if two lines be drawn from the centre, the farther they extend from the
centre, the farther they are from each other; therefore, if a body were infinite, the lines
would be infinitely distant from each other; and thus one could never occupy the place belonging
to any other.

The same applies to a mathematical body. For if we imagine a mathematical body actually existing,
we must imagine it under some form, because nothing is actual except by its form; hence, since
the form of quantity as such is figure, such a body must have some figure, and so would be
finite; for figure is confined by a term or boundary.

Reply Obj. 1: A geometrician does not need to assume a line actually infinite, but takes some
actually finite line, from which he subtracts whatever he finds necessary; which line he calls
infinite.

Reply Obj. 2: Although the infinite is not against the nature of magnitude in general, still
it is against the nature of any species of it; thus, for instance, it is against the nature
of a bicubical or tricubical magnitude, whether circular or triangular, and so on. Now what
is not possible in any species cannot exist in the genus; hence there cannot be any infinite
magnitude, since no species of magnitude is infinite.

Reply Obj. 3: The infinite in quantity, as was shown above, belongs to matter. Now by division
of the whole we approach to matter, forasmuch as parts have the aspect of matter; but by addition
we approach to the whole which has the aspect of a form. Therefore the infinite is not in the
addition of magnitude, but only in division.

Reply Obj. 4: Movement and time are whole, not actually but successively; hence they have potentiality
mixed with actuality. But magnitude is an actual whole; therefore the infinite in quantity
refers to matter, and does not agree with the totality of magnitude; yet it agrees with the
totality of time and movement: for it is proper to matter to be in potentiality.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I, Q. 7, Art. 4]

Whether an Infinite Multitude Can Exist?

Objection 1: It seems that an actually infinite multitude is possible. For it is not impossible
for a potentiality to be made actual. But number can be multiplied to infinity. Therefore it
is possible for an infinite multitude actually to exist.

Obj. 2: Further, it is possible for any individual of any species to be made actual. But the
species of figures are infinite. Therefore an infinite number of actual figures is possible.

Obj. 3: Further, things not opposed to each other do not obstruct each other. But supposing
a multitude of things to exist, there can still be many others not opposed to them. Therefore
it is not impossible for others also to coexist with them, and so on to infinitude; therefore
an actual infinite number of things is possible. Some, as Avicenna and Algazel, said that it
was impossible for an actually infinite multitude to exist absolutely; but that an accidentally
infinite multitude was not impossible. A multitude is said to be infinite absolutely, when
an infinite multitude is necessary that something may exist. Now this is impossible; because
it would entail something dependent on an infinity for its existence; and hence its generation
could never come to be, because it is impossible to pass through an infinite medium.

A multitude is said to be accidentally infinite when its existence as such is not necessary,
but accidental. This can be shown, for example, in the work of a carpenter requiring a certain
absolute multitude; namely, art in the soul, the movement of the hand, and a hammer; and supposing
that such things were infinitely multiplied, the carpentering work would never be finished,
forasmuch as it would depend on an infinite number of causes. But the multitude of hammers,
inasmuch as one may be broken and another used, is an accidental multitude; for it happens
by accident that many hammers are used, and it matters little whether one or two, or many are
used, or an infinite number, if the work is carried on for an infinite time. In this way they
said that there can be an accidentally infinite multitude.

This, however, is impossible; since every kind of multitude must belong to a species of multitude.
Now the species of multitude are to be reckoned by the species of numbers. But no species of
number is infinite; for every number is multitude measured by one. Hence it is impossible for
there to be an actually infinite multitude, either absolute or accidental. Likewise multitude
in nature is created; and everything created is comprehended under some clear intention of
the Creator; for no agent acts aimlessly. Hence everything created must be comprehended in
a certain number. Therefore it is impossible for an actually infinite multitude to exist, even
accidentally. But a potentially infinite multitude is possible; because the increase of multitude
follows upon the division of magnitude; since the more a thing is divided, the greater number
of things result. Hence, as the infinite is to be found potentially in the division of the
continuous, because we thus approach matter, as was shown in the preceding article, by the
same rule, the infinite can be also found potentially in the addition of multitude.

Reply Obj. 1: Every potentiality is made actual according to its mode of being; for instance,
a day is reduced to act successively, and not all at once. Likewise the infinite in multitude
is reduced to act successively, and not all at once; because every multitude can be succeeded
by another multitude to infinity.

Reply Obj. 2: Species of figures are infinite by infinitude of number. Now there are various
species of figures, such as trilateral, quadrilateral and so on; and as an infinitely numerable
multitude is not all at once reduced to act, so neither is the multitude of figures.

Reply Obj. 3: Although the supposition of some things does not preclude the supposition of
others, still the supposition of an infinite number is opposed to any single species of multitude.
Hence it is not possible for an actually infinite multitude to exist.

QUESTION 8

THE EXISTENCE OF GOD IN THINGS (In Four Articles)

Since it evidently belongs to the infinite to be present everywhere, and in all things, we
now consider whether this belongs to God; and concerning this there arise four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether God is in all things?

(2) Whether God is everywhere?

(3) Whether God is everywhere by essence, power, and presence?

(4) Whether to be everywhere belongs to God alone?

FIRST ARTICLE [I, Q. 8, Art. 1]

Whether God Is in All Things?

Objection 1: It seems that God is not in all things. For what is above all things is not in
all things. But God is above all, according to the Psalm (Ps. 112:4), "The Lord is high above
all nations," etc. Therefore God is not in all things.

Obj. 2: Further, what is in anything is thereby contained. Now God is not contained by things,
but rather does He contain them. Therefore God is not in things but things are rather in Him.
Hence Augustine says (Octog. Tri. Quaest. qu. 20), that "in Him things are, rather than He
is in any place."

Obj. 3: Further, the more powerful an agent is, the more extended is its action. But God is
the most powerful of all agents. Therefore His action can extend to things which are far removed
from Him; nor is it necessary that He should be in all things.

Obj. 4: Further, the demons are beings. But God is not in the demons; for there is no fellowship
between light and darkness (2 Cor. 6:14). Therefore God is not in all things.

On the contrary, A thing is wherever it operates. But God operates in all things, according
to Isa. 26:12, "Lord . . . Thou hast wrought all our works in [Vulg.: 'for'] us." Therefore
God is in all things.

I answer that, God is in all things; not, indeed, as part of their essence, nor as an accident,
but as an agent is present to that upon which it works. For an agent must be joined to that
wherein it acts immediately and touch it by its power; hence it is proved in Phys. vii that
the thing moved and the mover must be joined together. Now since God is very being by His own
essence, created being must be His proper effect; as to ignite is the proper effect of fire.
Now God causes this effect in things not only when they first begin to be, but as long as they
are preserved in being; as light is caused in the air by the sun as long as the air remains
illuminated. Therefore as long as a thing has being, God must be present to it, according to
its mode of being. But being is innermost in each thing and most fundamentally inherent in
all things since it is formal in respect of everything found in a thing, as was shown above
(Q. 7, A. 1). Hence it must be that God is in all things, and innermostly.

Reply Obj. 1: God is above all things by the excellence of His nature; nevertheless, He is
in all things as the cause of the being of all things; as was shown above in this article.

Reply Obj. 2: Although corporeal things are said to be in another as in that which contains
them, nevertheless, spiritual things contain those things in which they are; as the soul contains
the body. Hence also God is in things containing them; nevertheless, by a certain similitude
to corporeal things, it is said that all things are in God; inasmuch as they are contained by Him.

Reply Obj. 3: No action of an agent, however powerful it may be, acts at a distance, except
through a medium. But it belongs to the great power of God that He acts immediately in all
things. Hence nothing is distant from Him, as if it could be without God in itself. But things
are said to be distant from God by the unlikeness to Him in nature or grace; as also He is
above all by the excellence of His own nature.

Reply Obj. 4: In the demons there is their nature which is from God, and also the deformity
of sin which is not from Him; therefore, it is not to be absolutely conceded that God is in
the demons, except with the addition, "inasmuch as they are beings." But in things not deformed
in their nature, we must say absolutely that God is.

SECOND ARTICLE [I, Q. 8, Art. 2]

Whether God Is Everywhere?

Objection 1: It seems that God is not everywhere. For to be everywhere means to be in every
place. But to be in every place does not belong to God, to Whom it does not belong to be in
place at all; for "incorporeal things," as Boethius says (De Hebdom.), "are not in a place."
Therefore God is not everywhere.

Obj. 2: Further, the relation of time to succession is the same as the relation of place to
permanence. But one indivisible part of action or movement cannot exist in different times;
therefore neither can one indivisible part in the genus of permanent things be in every place.
Now the divine being is not successive but permanent. Therefore God is not in many places;
and thus He is not everywhere.

Obj. 3: Further, what is wholly in any one place is not in part elsewhere. But if God is in
any one place He is all there; for He has no parts. No part of Him then is elsewhere; and therefore
God is not everywhere.

On the contrary, It is written, "I fill heaven and earth." (Jer.
   23:24).

I answer that, Since place is a thing, to be in place can be understood in a twofold sense;
either by way of other things--i.e. as one thing is said to be in another no matter how; and
thus the accidents of a place are in place; or by a way proper to place; and thus things placed
are in a place. Now in both these senses, in some way God is in every place; and this is to
be everywhere. First, as He is in all things giving them being, power and operation; so He
is in every place as giving it existence and locative power. Again, things placed are in place,
inasmuch as they fill place; and God fills every place; not, indeed, like a body, for a body
is said to fill place inasmuch as it excludes the co-presence of another body; whereas by God
being in a place, others are not thereby excluded from it; indeed, by the very fact that He
gives being to the things that fill every place, He Himself fills every place.

Reply Obj. 1: Incorporeal things are in place not by contact of dimensive quantity, as bodies
are but by contact of power.

Reply Obj. 2: The indivisible is twofold. One is the term of the continuous; as a point in
permanent things, and as a moment in succession; and this kind of the indivisible in permanent
things, forasmuch as it has a determinate site, cannot be in many parts of place, or in many
places; likewise the indivisible of action or movement, forasmuch as it has a determinate order
in movement or action, cannot be in many parts of time. Another kind of the indivisible is
outside of the whole genus of the continuous; and in this way incorporeal substances, like
God, angel and soul, are called indivisible. Such a kind of indivisible does not belong to
the continuous, as a part of it, but as touching it by its power; hence, according as its power
can extend itself to one or to many, to a small thing, or to a great one, in this way it is
in one or in many places, and in a small or large place.

Reply Obj. 3: A whole is so called with reference to its parts. Now part is twofold: viz. a
part of the essence, as the form and the matter are called parts of the composite, while genus
and difference are called parts of species. There is also part of quantity into which any quantity
is divided. What therefore is whole in any place by totality of quantity, cannot be outside
of that place, because the quantity of anything placed is commensurate to the quantity of the
place; and hence there is no totality of quantity without totality of place. But totality of
essence is not commensurate to the totality of place. Hence it is not necessary for that which
is whole by totality of essence in a thing, not to be at all outside of it. This appears also
in accidental forms which have accidental quantity; as an example, whiteness is whole in each
part of the surface if we speak of its totality of essence; because according to the perfect
idea of its species it is found to exist in every part of the surface. But if its totality
be considered according to quantity which it has accidentally, then it is not whole in every
part of the surface. On the other hand, incorporeal substances have no totality either of themselves
or accidentally, except in reference to the perfect idea of their essence. Hence, as the soul
is whole in every part of the body, so is God whole in all things and in each one.

THIRD ARTICLE [I, Q. 8, Art. 3]

Whether God Is Everywhere by Essence, Presence and Power?

Objection 1: It seems that the mode of God's existence in all things is not properly described
by way of essence, presence and power. For what is by essence in anything, is in it essentially.
But God is not essentially in things; for He does not belong to the essence of anything. Therefore
it ought not to be said that God is in things by essence, presence and power.

Obj. 2: Further, to be present in anything means not to be absent from it. Now this is the
meaning of God being in things by His essence, that He is not absent from anything. Therefore
the presence of God in all things by essence and presence means the same thing. Therefore it
is superfluous to say that God is present in things by His essence, presence and power.

Obj. 3: Further, as God by His power is the principle of all things, so He is the same likewise
by His knowledge and will. But it is not said that He is in things by knowledge and will. Therefore
neither is He present by His power.

Obj. 4: Further, as grace is a perfection added to the substance of a thing, so many other
perfections are likewise added. Therefore if God is said to be in certain persons in a special
way by grace, it seems that according to every perfection there ought to be a special mode
of God's existence in things.

On the contrary, A gloss on the Canticle of Canticles (5) says that, "God by a common mode
is in all things by His presence, power and substance; still He is said to be present more
familiarly in some by grace." [*The quotation is from St. Gregory, (Hom. viii in Ezech.)].

I answer that, God is said to be in a thing in two ways; in one way after the manner of an
efficient cause; and thus He is in all things created by Him; in another way he is in things
as the object of operation is in the operator; and this is proper to the operations of the
soul, according as the thing known is in the one who knows; and the thing desired in the one
desiring. In this second way God is especially in the rational creature which knows and loves
Him actually or habitually. And because the rational creature possesses this prerogative by
grace, as will be shown later (Q. 12). He is said to be thus in the saints by grace.

But how He is in other things created by Him, may be considered from human affairs. A king,
for example, is said to be in the whole kingdom by his power, although he is not everywhere
present. Again a thing is said to be by its presence in other things which are subject to its
inspection; as things in a house are said to be present to anyone, who nevertheless may not
be in substance in every part of the house. Lastly, a thing is said to be by way of substance
or essence in that place in which its substance may be. Now there were some (the Manichees)
who said that spiritual and incorporeal things were subject to the divine power; but that visible
and corporeal things were subject to the power of a contrary principle. Therefore against these
it is necessary to say that God is in all things by His power.

But others, though they believed that all things were subject to the divine power, still did
not allow that divine providence extended to these inferior bodies, and in the person of these
it is said, "He walketh about the poles of the heavens; and He doth not consider our things
[*Vulg.: 'He doth not consider . . . and He walketh,' etc.]" (Job 22:14). Against these it
is necessary to say that God is in all things by His presence.

Further, others said that, although all things are subject to God's providence, still all things
are not immediately created by God; but that He immediately created the first creatures, and
these created the others. Against these it is necessary to say that He is in all things by
His essence.

Therefore, God is in all things by His power, inasmuch as all things are subject to His power;
He is by His presence in all things, as all things are bare and open to His eyes; He is in
all things by His essence, inasmuch as He is present to all as the cause of their being.

Reply Obj. 1: God is said to be in all things by essence, not indeed by the essence of the
things themselves, as if He were of their essence; but by His own essence; because His substance
is present to all things as the cause of their being.

Reply Obj. 2: A thing can be said to be present to another, when in its sight, though the thing
may be distant in substance, as was shown in this article; and therefore two modes of presence
are necessary; viz. by essence and by presence.

Reply Obj. 3: Knowledge and will require that the thing known should be in the one who knows,
and the thing willed in the one who wills. Hence by knowledge and will things are more truly
in God than God in things. But power is the principle of acting on another; hence by power
the agent is related and applied to an external thing; thus by power an agent may be said to
be present to another.

Reply Obj. 4: No other perfection, except grace, added to substance, renders God present in
anything as the object known and loved; therefore only grace constitutes a special mode of
God's existence in things. There is, however, another special mode of God's existence in man
by union, which will be treated of in its own place (Part III).

FOURTH ARTICLE [I, Q. 8, Art. 4]

Whether to Be Everywhere Belongs to God Alone?

Objection 1: It seems that to be everywhere does not belong to God alone. For the universal,
according to the Philosopher (Poster. i), is everywhere, and always; primary matter also, since
it is in all bodies, is everywhere. But neither of these is God, as appears from what is said
above (Q. 3). Therefore to be everywhere does not belong to God alone.

Obj. 2: Further, number is in things numbered. But the whole universe is constituted in number,
as appears from the Book of Wisdom (Wis. 11:21). Therefore there is some number which is in
the whole universe, and is thus everywhere.

Obj. 3: Further, the universe is a kind of "whole perfect body" (Coel. et Mund. i). But the
whole universe is everywhere, because there is no place outside it. Therefore to be everywhere
does not belong to God alone.

Obj. 4: Further, if any body were infinite, no place would exist outside of it, and so it would
be everywhere. Therefore to be everywhere does not appear to belong to God alone.

Obj. 5: Further, the soul, as Augustine says (De Trin. vi, 6), is "whole in the whole body,
and whole in every one of its parts." Therefore if there was only one animal in the world,
its soul would be everywhere; and thus to be everywhere does not belong to God alone.

Obj. 6: Further, as Augustine says (Ep. 137), "The soul feels where it sees, and lives where
it feels, and is where it lives." But the soul sees as it were everywhere: for in a succession
of glances it comprehends the entire space of the heavens in its sight. Therefore the soul
is everywhere.

On the contrary, Ambrose says (De Spir. Sanct. i, 7): "Who dares to call the Holy Ghost a creature,
Who in all things, and everywhere, and always is, which assuredly belongs to the divinity alone?"

I answer that, To be everywhere primarily and absolutely, is proper to God. Now to be everywhere
primarily is said of that which in its whole self is everywhere; for if a thing were everywhere
according to its parts in different places, it would not be primarily everywhere, forasmuch
as what belongs to anything according to part does not belong to it primarily; thus if a man
has white teeth, whiteness belongs primarily not to the man but to his teeth. But a thing is
everywhere absolutely when it does not belong to it to be everywhere accidentally, that is,
merely on some supposition; as a grain of millet would be everywhere, supposing that no other
body existed. It belongs therefore to a thing to be everywhere absolutely when, on any supposition,
it must be everywhere; and this properly belongs to God alone. For whatever number of places
be supposed, even if an infinite number be supposed besides what already exist, it would be
necessary that God should be in all of them; for nothing can exist except by Him. Therefore
to be everywhere primarily and absolutely belongs to God and is proper to Him: because whatever
number of places be supposed to exist, God must be in all of them, not as to a part of Him,
but as to His very self.

Reply Obj. 1: The universal, and also primary matter are indeed everywhere; but not according
to the same mode of existence.

Reply Obj. 2: Number, since it is an accident, does not, of itself, exist in place, but accidentally;
neither is the whole but only part of it in each of the things numbered; hence it does not
follow that it is primarily and absolutely everywhere.

Reply Obj. 3: The whole body of the universe is everywhere, but not primarily; forasmuch as
it is not wholly in each place, but according to its parts; nor again is it everywhere absolutely,
because, supposing that other places existed besides itself, it would not be in them.

Reply Obj. 4: If an infinite body existed, it would be everywhere; but according to its parts.

Reply Obj. 5: Were there one animal only, its soul would be everywhere primarily indeed, but
only accidentally.

Reply Obj. 6: When it is said that the soul sees anywhere, this can be taken in two senses.
In one sense the adverb "anywhere" determines the act of seeing on the part of the object;
and in this sense it is true that while it sees the heavens, it sees in the heavens; and in
the same way it feels in the heavens; but it does not follow that it lives or exists in the
heavens, because to live and to exist do not import an act passing to an exterior object. In
another sense it can be understood according as the adverb determines the act of the seer,
as proceeding from the seer; and thus it is true that where the soul feels and sees, there
it is, and there it lives according to this mode of speaking; and thus it does not follow that
it is everywhere.

QUESTION 9

THE IMMUTABILITY OF GOD (In Two Articles)

We next consider God's immutability, and His eternity following on His immutability. On the
immutability of God there are two points of inquiry:

(1) Whether God is altogether immutable?

(2) Whether to be immutable belongs to God alone?

FIRST ARTICLE [I, Q. 9, Art. 1]

Whether God is altogether immutable?

Objection 1: It seems that God is not altogether immutable. For whatever moves itself is in
some way mutable. But, as Augustine says (Gen. ad lit, viii, 20), "The Creator Spirit moves
Himself neither by time, nor by place." Therefore God is in some way mutable.

Obj. 2: Further, it is said of Wisdom, that "it is more mobile than all things active [Vulg.
'mobilior']" (Wis. 7:24). But God is wisdom itself; therefore God is movable.

Obj. 3: Further, to approach and to recede signify movement. But these are said of God in Scripture,
"Draw nigh to God and He will draw nigh to you" (James 4:8). Therefore God is mutable.

On the contrary, It is written, "I am the Lord, and I change not" (Malachi 3:6).

I answer that, From what precedes, it is shown that God is altogether immutable. First, because
it was shown above that there is some first being, whom we call God; and that this first being
must be pure act, without the admixture of any potentiality, for the reason that, absolutely,
potentiality is posterior to act. Now everything which is in any way changed, is in some way
in potentiality. Hence it is evident that it is impossible for God to be in any way changeable.
Secondly, because everything which is moved, remains as it was in part, and passes away in
part; as what is moved from whiteness to blackness, remains the same as to substance; thus
in everything which is moved, there is some kind of composition to be found. But it has been
shown above (Q. 3, A. 7) that in God there is no composition, for He is altogether simple.
Hence it is manifest that God cannot be moved. Thirdly, because everything which is moved acquires
something by its movement, and attains to what it had not attained previously. But since God
is infinite, comprehending in Himself all the plenitude of perfection of all being, He cannot
acquire anything new, nor extend Himself to anything whereto He was not extended previously.
Hence movement in no way belongs to Him. So, some of the ancients, constrained, as it were,
by the truth, decided that the first principle was immovable.

Reply Obj. 1: Augustine there speaks in a similar way to Plato, who said that the first mover
moves Himself; calling every operation a movement, even as the acts of understanding, and willing,
and loving, are called movements. Therefore because God understands and loves Himself, in that
respect they said that God moves Himself, not, however, as movement and change belong to a
thing existing in potentiality, as we now speak of change and movement.

Reply Obj. 2: Wisdom is called mobile by way of similitude, according as it diffuses its likeness
even to the outermost of things; for nothing can exist which does not proceed from the divine
wisdom by way of some kind of imitation, as from the first effective and formal principle;
as also works of art proceed from the wisdom of the artist. And so in the same way, inasmuch
as the similitude of the divine wisdom proceeds in degrees from the highest things, which participate
more fully of its likeness, to the lowest things which participate of it in a lesser degree,
there is said to be a kind of procession and movement of the divine wisdom to things; as when
we say that the sun proceeds to the earth, inasmuch as the ray of light touches the earth.
In this way Dionysius (Coel. Hier. i) expounds the matter, that every procession of the divine
manifestation comes to us from the movement of the Father of light.

Reply Obj. 3: These things are said of God in Scripture metaphorically. For as the sun is said
to enter a house, or to go out, according as its rays reach the house, so God is said to approach
to us, or to recede from us, when we receive the influx of His goodness, or decline from Him.

SECOND ARTICLE [I. Q. 9, Art. 2]

Whether to Be Immutable Belongs to God Alone?

Objection 1: It seems that to be immutable does not belong to God alone. For the Philosopher
says (Metaph. ii) that "matter is in everything which is moved." But, according to some, certain
created substances, as angels and souls, have not matter. Therefore to be immutable does not
belong to God alone.

Obj. 2: Further, everything in motion moves to some end. What therefore has already attained
its ultimate end, is not in motion. But some creatures have already attained to their ultimate
end; as all the blessed in heaven. Therefore some creatures are immovable.

Obj. 3: Further, everything which is mutable is variable. But forms are invariable; for it
is said (Sex Princip. i) that "form is essence consisting of the simple and invariable." Therefore
it does not belong to God alone to be immutable.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Nat. Boni. i), "God alone is immutable; and whatever things
He has made, being from nothing, are mutable."

I answer that, God alone is altogether immutable; whereas every creature is in some way mutable.
Be it known therefore that a mutable thing can be called so in two ways: by a power in itself;
and by a power possessed by another. For all creatures before they existed, were possible,
not by any created power, since no creature is eternal, but by the divine power alone, inasmuch
as God could produce them into existence. Thus, as the production of a thing into existence
depends on the will of God, so likewise it depends on His will that things should be preserved;
for He does not preserve them otherwise than by ever giving them existence; hence if He took
away His action from them, all things would be reduced to nothing, as appears from Augustine
(Gen. ad lit. iv, 12). Therefore as it was in the Creator's power to produce them before they
existed in themselves, so likewise it is in the Creator's power when they exist in themselves
to bring them to nothing. In this way therefore, by the power of another--namely, of God--they
are mutable, inasmuch as they are producible from nothing by Him, and are by Him reducible
from existence to non-existence.

If, however, a thing is called mutable by a power in itself, thus also in some manner every
creature is mutable. For every creature has a twofold power, active and passive; and I call
that power passive which enables anything to attain its perfection either in being, or in attaining
to its end. Now if the mutability of a thing be considered according to its power for being,
in that way all creatures are not mutable, but those only in which what is potential in them
is consistent with non-being. Hence, in the inferior bodies there is mutability both as regards
substantial being, inasmuch as their matter can exist with privation of their substantial form,
and also as regards their accidental being, supposing the subject to coexist with privation
of accident; as, for example, this subject man can exist with not-whiteness and can therefore
be changed from white to not-white. But supposing the accident to be such as to follow on the
essential principles of the subject, then the privation of such an accident cannot coexist
with the subject. Hence the subject cannot be changed as regards that kind of accident; as,
for example, snow cannot be made black. Now in the celestial bodies matter is not consistent
with privation of form, because the form perfects the whole potentiality of the matter; therefore
these bodies are not mutable as to substantial being, but only as to locality, because the
subject is consistent with privation of this or that place. On the other hand incorporeal substances,
being subsistent forms which, although with respect to their own existence are as potentiality
to act, are not consistent with the privation of this act; forasmuch as existence is consequent
upon form, and nothing corrupts except it lose its form. Hence in the form itself there is
no power to non-existence; and so these kinds of substances are immutable and invariable as
regards their existence. Wherefore Dionysius says (Div. Nom. iv) that "intellectual created
substances are pure from generation and from every variation, as also are incorporeal and immaterial
substances." Still, there remains in them a twofold mutability: one as regards their potentiality
to their end; and in that way there is in them a mutability according to choice from good to
evil, as Damascene says (De Fide ii, 3,4); the other as regards place, inasmuch as by their
finite power they attain to certain fresh places--which cannot be said of God, who by His infinity
fills all places, as was shown above (Q. 8, A. 2).

Thus in every creature there is a potentiality to change either as regards substantial being
as in the case of things corruptible; or as regards locality only, as in the case of the celestial
bodies; or as regards the order to their end, and the application of their powers to divers
objects, as in the case with the angels; and universally all creatures generally are mutable
by the power of the Creator, in Whose power is their existence and non-existence. Hence since
God is in none of these ways mutable, it belongs to Him alone to be altogether immutable.

Reply Obj. 1: This objection proceeds from mutability as regards substantial or accidental
being; for philosophers treated of such movement.

Reply Obj. 2: The good angels, besides their natural endowment of immutability of being, have
also immutability of election by divine power; nevertheless there remains in them mutability
as regards place.

Reply Obj. 3: Forms are called invariable, forasmuch as they cannot be subjects of variation;
but they are subject to variation because by them their subject is variable. Hence it is clear
that they vary in so far as they are; for they are not called beings as though they were the
subject of being, but because through them something has being.

QUESTION 10

THE ETERNITY OF GOD (In Six Articles)

We must now consider the eternity of God, concerning which arise six points of inquiry:

(1) What is eternity?

(2) Whether God is eternal?

(3) Whether to be eternal belongs to God alone?

(4) Whether eternity differs from time?

(5) The difference of aeviternity and of time.

(6) Whether there is only one aeviternity, as there is one time, and one eternity?

FIRST ARTICLE [I, Q. 10, Art. 1]

Whether This Is a Good Definition of Eternity, "The Simultaneously- Whole and Perfect Possession
of Interminable Life"?

Objection 1: It seems that the definition of eternity given by Boethius (De Consol. v) is not
a good one: "Eternity is the simultaneously-whole and perfect possession of interminable life."
For the word "interminable" is a negative one. But negation only belongs to what is defective,
and this does not belong to eternity. Therefore in the definition of eternity the word "interminable"
ought not to be found.

Obj. 2: Further, eternity signifies a certain kind of duration. But duration regards existence
rather than life. Therefore the word "life" ought not to come into the definition of eternity;
but rather the word "existence."

Obj. 3: Further, a whole is what has parts. But this is alien to eternity which is simple.
Therefore it is improperly said to be "whole."

Obj. 4: Many days cannot occur together, nor can many times exist all at once. But in eternity,
days and times are in the plural, for it is said, "His going forth is from the beginning, from
the days of eternity" (Micah 5:2); and also it is said, "According to the revelation of the
mystery hidden from eternity" (Rom. 16:25). Therefore eternity is not omni-simultaneous.

Obj. 5: Further, the whole and the perfect are the same thing. Supposing, therefore, that it
is "whole," it is superfluously described as "perfect."

Obj. 6: Further, duration does not imply "possession." But eternity is a kind of duration.
Therefore eternity is not possession.

I answer that, As we attain to the knowledge of simple things by way of compound things, so
must we reach to the knowledge of eternity by means of time, which is nothing but the numbering
of movement by before and after. For since succession occurs in every movement, and one part
comes after another, the fact that we reckon before and after in movement, makes us apprehend
time, which is nothing else but the measure of before and after in movement. Now in a thing
bereft of movement, which is always the same, there is no before or after. As therefore the
idea of time consists in the numbering of before and after in movement; so likewise in the
apprehension of the uniformity of what is outside of movement, consists the idea of eternity.

Further, those things are said to be measured by time which have a beginning and an end in
time, because in everything which is moved there is a beginning, and there is an end. But as
whatever is wholly immutable can have no succession, so it has no beginning, and no end.

Thus eternity is known from two sources: first, because what is eternal is interminable--that
is, has no beginning nor end (that is, no term either way); secondly, because eternity has
no succession, being simultaneously whole.

Reply Obj. 1: Simple things are usually defined by way of negation; as "a point is that which
has no parts." Yet this is not to be taken as if the negation belonged to their essence, but
because our intellect which first apprehends compound things, cannot attain to the knowledge
of simple things except by removing the opposite.

Reply Obj. 2: What is truly eternal, is not only being, but also living; and life extends to
operation, which is not true of being. Now the protraction of duration seems to belong to operation
rather than to being; hence time is the numbering of movement.

Reply Obj. 3: Eternity is called whole, not because it has parts, but because it is wanting
in nothing.

Reply Obj. 4: As God, although incorporeal, is named in Scripture metaphorically by corporeal
names, so eternity though simultaneously whole, is called by names implying time and succession.

Reply Obj. 5: Two things are to be considered in time: time itself, which is successive; and
the "now" of time, which is imperfect. Hence the expression "simultaneously-whole" is used
to remove the idea of time, and the word "perfect" is used to exclude the "now" of time.

Reply Obj. 6: Whatever is possessed, is held firmly and quietly; therefore to designate the
immutability and permanence of eternity, we use the word "possession."

SECOND ARTICLE [I, Q. 10, Art. 2]

Whether God is Eternal?

Objection 1: It seems that God is not eternal. For nothing made can be predicated of God; for
Boethius says (De Trin. iv) that, "The now that flows away makes time, the now that stands
still makes eternity;" and Augustine says (Octog. Tri. Quaest. qu. 28) "that God is the author
of eternity." Therefore God is not eternal.

Obj. 2: Further, what is before eternity, and after eternity, is not measured by eternity.
But, as Aristotle says (De Causis), "God is before eternity and He is after eternity": for
it is written that "the Lord shall reign for eternity, and beyond [*Douay: 'for ever and ever']"
(Ex. 15:18). Therefore to be eternal does not belong to God.

Obj. 3: Further, eternity is a kind of measure. But to be measured belongs not to God. Therefore
it does not belong to Him to be eternal.

Obj. 4: Further, in eternity, there is no present, past or future, since it is simultaneously
whole; as was said in the preceding article. But words denoting present, past and future time
are applied to God in Scripture. Therefore God is not eternal.

On the contrary, Athanasius says in his Creed: "The Father is eternal, the Son is eternal,
the Holy Ghost is eternal."

I answer that, The idea of eternity follows immutability, as the idea of time follows movement,
as appears from the preceding article. Hence, as God is supremely immutable, it supremely belongs
to Him to be eternal. Nor is He eternal only; but He is His own eternity; whereas, no other
being is its own duration, as no other is its own being. Now God is His own uniform being;
and hence as He is His own essence, so He is His own eternity.

Reply Obj. 1: The "now" that stands still, is said to make eternity according to our apprehension.
As the apprehension of time is caused in us by the fact that we apprehend the flow of the "now,"
so the apprehension of eternity is caused in us by our apprehending the "now" standing still.
When Augustine says that "God is the author of eternity," this is to be understood of participated
eternity. For God communicates His eternity to some in the same way as He communicates His
immutability.

Reply Obj. 2: From this appears the answer to the Second Objection. For God is said to be before
eternity, according as it is shared by immaterial substances. Hence, also, in the same book,
it is said that "intelligence is equal to eternity." In the words of Exodus, "The Lord shall
reign for eternity, and beyond," eternity stands for age, as another rendering has it. Thus
it is said that the Lord will reign beyond eternity, inasmuch as He endures beyond every age,
i.e. beyond every kind of duration. For age is nothing more than the period of each thing,
as is said in the book De Coelo i. Or to reign beyond eternity can be taken to mean that if
any other thing were conceived to exist for ever, as the movement of the heavens according
to some philosophers, then God would still reign beyond, inasmuch as His reign is simultaneously
whole.

