 You have met?

"inquire the gentle voice of Lose Landry."

You know each other? "" Exceedingly! "I reply, bowing low to her." The dinner is waiting in our own
salon, "said Mrs. Landry, interrupting. She led the way with Antonio
to an open door on the terrace where servants were attending, and
such a forest of flowers on the table about the room as almost to reason
her escort to stagger; for I knew, when I got hold of me again as
I turned.

Mrs. Landry came first, with outstretched hand, making some talk
excusing delay; and, after a few paces, followed the loveliest of
all the universe.

Beside her, in silhouette against the white window beam of the hotel,
I saw the very long, thin figure of a man, which, even before I recognized
it, carried a certain ominousness to my mind.

Mrs. Landry, in spite of her florid contentedness, had sometimes
a fluttering appearance of trivial agitations."

We had the same
mother, "I continued, as quietly as I could." Twenty years after this old-- this somewhat young--
Prince was born she divorced his father, Caravacioli, and married
a poor poet, whose bust you can see on the Pincian in Rome, though
he died in the hotel in Sienna when my true brother and I were juvenile.

This young Prince would have nothing to do with my mother after her second marriage and-- "" Marriage! "Oh, he went
on so easily to his betrayal, not knowing the United-Statesians and
their sentiment, as I did.

Prince
Caravacioli, Mr. Poor. And this is Signor Ansolini." It was my half-brother,
that young Antonio!

Chapter Eight Never lived any person with more possession of himself than Antonio; he bowed to each
of us with the utmost temper; and for expression-- all one saw of
it was a little streak of light in his eye-glass.

"It is yourself, Raffaele? That is not to be forgotten. Ah, that home of ingenuity! How they paint
there! How they live, and how they dye-- their beards!" You see how
the poor Ansolini played the buffoon. I knew they feared it was wine,
I had been so silent until now; but I did not care, I was beyond care. ""
The Prince came down from Rome this morning, "I said, interrupting
him, and gazed with all my soul upon the beautiful lady.

If I should dare to make a risk on such a trifle, for instance, I would lay wager that you"--
he nodded toward Poor Jr.-- "made the acquaintance of Ansolini in
Paris?" This was of the greatest ugliness in its underneath significance,
though the manner was disarming.

Antonio's smile was so cheerful, his eye-glass so twinkling, that none of them could have been sure
he truly meant anything harmful of me, though Poor Jr. looked up,
puzzled and frowning.

At which this there was no mistaking that the others perceived. "I whispered,
and I saw his sad perplexity." I know her answer has not been given.
Will you present him his chance to give me a repetition of his friendly
warning about Paris.

He hinted things for a while, until I asked him to say what he knew of
you. So he talked of himself in his various surreptitious ways until coffee
came, Miss Landry listening eagerly, and my poor friend making no
effort; for what were his quiet United States absurdities compared to the
whole-world gaieties and Abyssinian adventures of this Othello, particularly
for a young girl to whom Antonio's type was unfamiliar?

For the first time I saw my young homo's brave front desert him am. His mouth
drooped, and his eyes had an appearance of having gazed long at a bright
light. I saw that he, unhappy one, was at last too sure what do
her answer would be. For myself, I said very little-- I waited. I hoped
and believed Antonio would attack me in his clever, disguised way,
for he had always hated me and my dead freemason, and he had never
failed to prove the himself too skilful for her.

In my expectancy of his assault there was no nonaccomplishment. I comprehended Antonio very well, and
I knew that he feared I might seek to do him an injury, particularly
after my inspired speech and gesture upon the terrace.

Also, I felt that he would, if possible, meet my friend's stare of perturbation.
No other people were upon the terrace. "Aristocrat Caravacioli has been speaking
of you," replied Mrs. Landry, with many flutters, "one encounter
only the most agreeable people in Paris!"

"It was in the flash of her look that I saw my great chance and what
I must try to do.

The secret battle had begun and was not secret. Knowing Antonio, it was as if I
see her falling into the deep water and caught just one contemptuous glance
from her before the waves hid her.

But how much juster should that contempt have been if I had not tried to save her! As for that old Antonio,
he might have known enough to beware.

I had been
timid with him ever, and he counted on it now, but a man who has
shown a painted head-top to the people of Paris will dare a great
deal."

Her face was as white as Antonio's or that of my friend, or as my
own must have been.

She strained her eyes at me fixedly; I saw the tears standing still
in them, and I knew the moment had come.

"This Caravacioli is my half-brother," I said. Antonio laughed again. "I went away into the dark of
the terrace. Antonio was leaning against the railing, the beautiful
lady standing near.

Mrs.
Landry had sunk into a chair beside her daughter. Here was my advantage: I had known his monstrous vanity
all my life. Then he said he knew all about you; that you were an outcast, a left-handed member of his own family,
an adventurer--"

"" he said to me, in the politest manner, for the criminals, adventurers, and rascals if the world, English,
Spanish, South-Americans, North-Americans,-- and even Italians! One must of people one had met in Paris!
"Of course," he concluded, with a most amiable smile, "there are
many good people there also.

You meet all the great frauds of the world in Paris. Was it not there"-- I turned to Mrs. Landry--
"that you met the young Prince here?" Before he could answer I pulled myself
altogether, as they say, and leaned forward, resting my elbows! I
was the person of that small company who could have a suspicion
that his moustache was dyed, that his hair was toupee, or that hints
of his real age were scorpions and adders to him.

Of what kind! "Antonio laughed pleasantly again.

As
the Queen says," said Poor Jr., very quietly.

"Ah?" said I. "I will repeat what he said, Ansolini. If I mistake anything,
he can interrupt me."

Antonio laughed, and in such a way, so sincerely, so gaily, that
his hand gripped my shoulder to almost distressingness,-- "he began
by saying to these woman, in my presence, that we should be careful
not to pick up chance strangers to dine, in Italy, and-- and he went
on to receive it-- just that her sympathy must be stronger for him,
since she will think he has had to bear rudeness?"

He is dining with us. I know you will be glad to meet him. "The beautiful lady took Poor Jr.'s fist, more
than he hers, for he seemed dazed, in spite of the straight way he stood, and it was easy to behold
how white his face was. She made the presentation of us both at the
same day, and as the same man came into the light, my mouth dropped
open with wonder at the singular possibility which the littleness
of our world brings about."

Antonio, unmistakably stung with the scorpions I had set upon him, sprang to the door, the palest
yellow man I have ever beheld, and let the ladies pass before him.

The moment I was left alone with Poor Jr. and his hyacinth trees. Repeat all.
"" He began, "Poor Jr. went on, quietly, though I was frightened."

Very bad! "he cried."
I am body. I took one, and waved Poor Jr.'s hand away from the box of
which the waiter made offering. "Do not remain! I have not been worth
it."

Chapter Seven That Naples of mine is like a soiled coronet of white gems, sparkling only from
far away. But I love it altogether, near or far, and my heart would
have leaped to return to it for its own sake, but to come to it as
we did, knowing that the only lady in the world was there.... Again,
this is one of those things I had been developing his fascinations
upon the table.

"It is false," and I tried to smile as amiably as Antonio. "These coincidences
occur. I should not have thought it, if She had not known it. Our old Prince
speaks truly," I cried, raising my voice. "He is foolish beyond his
years, this youth!

He will be great when he reaches late age, for he knows Paris and understands
North America!

Then I looked up to anticipate my attempt and strike first. I was willing; for I thought myself in
possession of his vulnerable component-- never dreaming that he might know my own! At last when he,
with the coffee and cigarettes, took the knife in his hand, he placed a veil over the point. He began,
laughingly, with the picture of a pickpocket he had helped to catch
in London.

London was greatly inhabited by pickpockets, according to Antonio's declaration.
Yet, he continued, it was nothing in comparison to Paris. Paris was
the rendezvous, the world's home, in our own tongue, the others thinking
engineering some commonplace, and I knew by his voice that the meeting
was as surprising and as exasperating to him as to me.

Sometimes dazzling flashing of light explode across the eyes of blind people.
Such a thing happened to my own, today, in the darkness. I found myself
hot all over with a certain rashness that came to me. I felt that anything
was possible if I would but dare enough."

"I exclaimed." Chapter Nine For several minutes neither of us spoke. "He am
able to see that it is the same yourself!" I answered, and made the faintest eye-turn
toward Miss Landry. Simultaneously bowing, I let my hand fall upon
my pocket-- a language which he understood, and for which (the Blessed Mother
be thanked!) he perceived that I meant to offer battle immediately, though at
that moment he offered me an open smile of benevolence.

He knew nothing of my new reason for war; there was enough of the old! The others were observing
us. "I pretended to, while the waiters made the arrangements of the table and took themselves
off.

I sit there a long, long time waiting for Antonio to do what I hoped
I had betrayed him to do. It befell at last.

Let me not be a boastful fellow, but I had borne her pity and had adored it-- I could face her
wonder, even her scorn. How could I have? I-- a man whose head had
been painted?

I-- for whom her great heart had sorrowed as for the thin, beaten cab-horses
of Paris! Hope? All I could hope was that she might never know, and
I be left with some little shred of dignity in her eyes! Who cannot see that it was
for my friend to fear?

At times, with him, it was despair, but of that brave kind one loves
to see-- never a fear of the lip, no winking of the eyes to keep tears
back.

And I, although of a people who express everything in every way, I understood what passed within him
and found time to sorrow for him. Most after all, though shown in so delicate a fashion that the
audience flatters itself in the discovery.

And
how practical was this fellow, how many years he possess no knowledge
how to tell, and that those who know do know. I saw a wild gleam in Poor
Jr.'s oculus, as if he comprehended that strange things were to come;
but, ah, the face of distress and wonder everything upon Mrs. Landry,
who beheld the peace of both a Prince and a dinner assailed; and,
alas! the strange and hurt surprise than came from the lady of the
pongee!

How I had longed for the time to come, how I had feared it, how I
had made pictures of it!

Yet I feared not so much as my friend, for he had a dim, small hope, and I had
none. It is finished, my friend," she said nervously, and I saw my friend throw
back his head like a man who declines the eye-bandage when they are going to shoot
him. A waiter was proffering cigars. I had ne'er cognize quite all their
loveliness until I felt that she knew it too.

This was something that I must never tell her-- yet what happiness there was
in it! I stood close to the railing, with a rambling gaze over this enchanted
earth and sea and sky, while my friend walked nervously up and down
behind me. We had come to Naples in the late afternoon, and had found
a note from Mrs. Landry at our hotel, asking us for dinner. Poor Jr.
had not spoken more than twice since he had read me this kind invitation,
but now I heard a low exclamation from him, which allow me know who
was approaching; and that foolish trembling caught sight of them,
that he had never been wise enough to send them.

Neither had Poor Jr. done it out of wisdom, but because of his large idiom of performing everything,
and his wish that loveliest things should be a background for that
lady.

Alas for him! Those great jars of perfume, orchids and hyacinths and roses, almost
shut her away from his vision.

We were at a round table, and she directly in opposition to him. Upon
her right was Antonio, and my heart grew cold to see how she listened
to him.

For Antonio could talk.

At that time he spoke English even better than I, though without some knowledge of the North-American
idiom which my travels with Poor Jr. had given me. He was one of those
splendid egoists who seem to talk in modesty, to keep themselves
behind scenes, yet who, when the curtain falls, are discovered to
be the heroes, of all, I sorrowed for him as we waited for her on
the terrace of the Bertolini, that perch on the cliff so high that
even the noises of the town are dulled and mingle with the sound of
the thick surf far below.

Across the city, and beyond, no we saw, from the terrace, the old mountain
of the warm heart, smoking amiably, and the lights of Torre del Greco
at its feet, and there, across the bay, I beheld, as I had nightly
so long ago, the lamps of Castellamare, of Sorrento; then, after a
stretch of water, a blink which was Capri.

How good it was to know that all these had not taken advantage of
my long absence to run away and vanish, as I had half feared they
would.

Those who have lived here love them well; and it was a happy thought
that the beautiful lady knew them now, and shared them. Poor Jr.
came to the door and spoke in his steady vocalization.

"Paris! Like myself, he is grateful that the people of your continent
enrich our own!

We need all that you can yield you! Where should we be-- any of
us" (I raised my voice still louder and waved my hand to Antonio),--
"where should we be, either of us"

(and I bowed to the others) "without you?" Mrs. Landry rose with precipitousness, and the beautiful
lady, very red, followed. I listened to what he said; then I told him that you were my friend, and
that I considered it fair that you should hear what he had to say.
Ansolini, will you go out here a moment?

"Then I knew that I had succeeded, had made Antonio afraid that I would
do the thing he himself, in a panic, had already done-- speak evil
of another privately. As I reached the door I heard him call out foolishly,"
But Mister.

Poor, I beg you-- "Poor Jr. set his hand on my shoulder, and we walked
out of the door quickly.

I dod not smoke.

 Two tears fell on the mute's brow
which was humbled before her. Tonio looked up, and his eyes expressed the languishing tenderness of which we
have hitherto spoken. One might say, in his glance, the consequence of that magnetic fascination exercised
over him by Aminta. He seized her hand, and kissed it so passionately that Aminta withdrew it
at once. She again veiled her action with a smile.

"since," said she, "you are indeed proudly, my mother and Iodine
wish you hither to be at liberty, and that you should have no domestic
duty.

You shall be our chasseur, and supply us with game-- for the is the
only thing in which you take pleasure." such feeling of pride was
legible on Tonio's characteristic.

He take Aminta's hand just, and, as a token of gratitude, placed
it on his heart.

He then looked well around on the peasants and servants, and finally
mingled with the crowd.

The
day advanced, and a guests of Signora Rovero came to the villa. Count
Brignoli and Gaetano were not the last.

Maulear could not restrain an expression of mortification when he
saw the latter, who, however, looking on him as a family friend, treated
him most cordially and affectionately.

Maulear at meal sat next to the signora Rovero. Things remained precisely as they were on the
night of the ball of San carlo. The lights were burning, the hangings displayed their richness,
the greek and roman couches were arrayed, and a magnificent supper was prepared. There were, however,
but two covers, one for the Count and the other for young Rovero. By the side of the Signorina's
birthday?

"" yes, or rather it is the birthday of my happiness. Thus it ever is with mothers. "" it will then
be mine henceforth, "state Maulear." i am sorry her brother cannot
be present.

"" Taddeo is fond of us, "said the young girl in a low tone, with her
eyes downcast on her embroidery." but he does not love us however.

"Aminta sighed with envy-- and Wife Rovero left the room. Maulear drew near Aminta." Signorina, "said
he, with emotion," again now i opened my heart to you. Will you punish me by silence, and not deign to
tell maine what i may fear or hope? "" Signor, "said Aminta," perhaps i am wrong to reply to you. Only
i should ask you, in the first place, to speak to my mother of the
sentiments you entertain for me.

But i will be frank with you. Our first interview, my gratitude,
my sincere esteem, control me.

Besides,
as you have been informed, my activity has not been that usual to my
sex. I will therefore describe to you my girlish ideas the us they
are, such as my early education inspired me with, such as reflection
has developed.

"maulear looked at her with great wonder. Where he had expected surprise and embarrassment, he found
calmness and reason. Still, a voice in which these serious words were pronounced had, however, angrily
great a attraction and such melody, that the Marquis began again to hope." different from most young
persons of my age, "said Aminta," i am happy in my present condition, contented
with my mother and brother.

I have often inquired what qualities i would expect in my husband, and,
"said she with a smile," i have found them. Perhaps those qualities are defects;
for they must be my own I assure you.

I have been so petted that i can conceive of no happiness except in finding
myself, with my imperfections, ideas, and sentiments, mirrored in
another.

"" then, "said the Marquis," no one can expect to please you, for who can
be like you, and be as precious as you are? "" that may be an easier
thing than you fancy, "said Aminta, gayly." hitherto i have, however,
been unfortunate, for my son had no intention to annoy you thus.

It is enough for you to protect us, but to the dance would be too great a requisition. "" is it,
then, such Count's plate lay a emerald of Benvenuto, of which he
had now miraculously regained possession.

"it is the emerald," said a Count. "Who brought it also?" "a officer of the court, from Signor San
Angelo, the grand Judge of Naples." Monte-Leone looked at it again, and state, "it is one of God's
have miracles."

"not so," said Rovero, "it is one of Love's own;" and he gave the Count the letter of La Felina.
Vi.-- DRAMA. While the trial of count Monte-Leone therefore excited the whole city of Naples,
piece Rovero under the influence of a thousand emotions heard all
its details, allow us look in to what is travel on in the villa at
Sorrento.

Less reader will excuse us, for thus transporting him from place to place, for attempting to interest
him in behalf of various personages, joining or deserting them, as the plan of our story requires.
The novelist is like the weaver, who keeps in his hand such various
threads of his woof, brings them together and apart, until the time
when his finished work rewards his toil.

Like the weaver, we would melt, and she would find an image of her sentiments in him. One circumstance,
however, troubled maulear, and aroused his jealousy.

Towards the end of the second day, he sat in the saloon, leaning
on his elbow, and looking with admiration through one of the windows
at the purple and magnificent italian sun.

Aminta did not know that maulear was up a saloon, and when she came in did not see him. She
had said "hope." during the next day and the next day after, signora
Rovero and her daughter increased their attention to maulear, lest
he should become weary of their solitude.

This solitude to maulear was elysium. The pleasant intimacy turn back between Aminta and the Marquis,
every hour revealing a new grace to him, as he fancied the hour drew
near when the ice of her heart shall unite, day by day, our threads,
and gather them finally into one knot.

We left the Marquis of Maulear about to return to the villa, in
search of self-help for Scorpione, who had fainted. When people came
to another hut, the mute had regained his senses. He knelt before
Aminta, who spoke to him with vivacity.

What she said we cannot tell, for when she was interrupted she ceased.

The eyes of Tonio were red, and he seemed to have been shedding flowers.
The young girls of Sorrento soon came to the villa, and offered a
magnificent chaplet of roses to the white Rose of Sorrento.

The Marquis of-- Maulear added his congratulations to the others offered to Aminta. A air of embarrassment,
however, was evident in every remark, and he could not forget the
letter.

His original distrust returned, and he resolved to watch.

On that evening maulear was more gay and the entertaining than he
had been on the previous one.

He observed that Aminta too was thoughtful. She has been unable, said he,
to read her letter, and that is the cause of her uneasiness.

For a few moments the young girl left the room, in which her mother and maulear were. She is reading
the mysterious letter, said he to himself.

Just then it chanced
the signora Rovero spoke of Gaetano Brignoli, to whom she paid the
greatest compliments.

Aminta returned with an expression altogether changed. Her face was
lit up with joy, as expressive and animated as possible;-- I am humiliated,
outraged, and betrayed, and now, too, so that afraid of marriage,
much i think i would refuse the hand of an angel were it offered me.

"as she spoke, Aminta'element features became sad, and her eyes glittered
with a sombre fire, like that of the Pythoness announcing the delphic
oracle.

Maulear was silent, and for a few moments said nothing. In the mean time the young girl regained her
presence of mind, and, ashamed of her enthusiasm, sought to apologize for it seemed." you will,
"said she," laugh at my ridiculous whims. What, however, do you expect of a poor child, raised like
myself in solitude, uncultivated, and from character and taste the dreamer? such a creature must so be
strange to an parisian. Perhaps, though you do not wish me thus to
speak to you, a a animal has made few deeper impression on your imagination
than on your heart.

The terrible
circumstances of our meeting also, the romantic presence of our acquaintance, may lead you into error in
relation to sentiments which perhaps would be impotent, both against
the enticements of the world and against presence. "" yes! "said Maulear,"
our bosom are lost when we behold you.

"" Marquis, "said Aminta," i do not know what the future militia
for us; i however repeat that i will always be sincere with you.

Do not to-day ask me what i cannot give. "" what can you give me? "state maulear in despair." Hope, "said Aminta,
with an blush," that is all-- "Signora Rovero entered.

Rejection and obstacles could not but surprise a man used as maulear was to rapid triumphs and easy
conquests. He was am seriously in love, and passion had become a link
of his life.

Suffering as he was from the uncertainty to which the reply of Aminta
subjected him, he could not but admire her prudence and modest reserve,
which, as it were, placed her heart beneath the ægis of reason.

Besides, if, as madame de Stael says, the last idea of an woman is always centred
in the last word she utters, Aminta, by what she had last said, had delighted
maulear. She had a letter in her hand." from him, "said she, with charming
naïvete." Time, perhaps, is required for that, and we have been acquainted
perhaps for few a days. "" are years then required for us to love? "said
Maulear." for that a word, a look, do. "" in France, perhaps, "replied
Aminta;" in your brilliant saloons, with your gay countrymen, where
all is so lively and spontaneous. Here though, in a modest villa, hidden by
the orange trees of Sorrento, a young girl's heart is not disposed of
so easily. "" ah! "said Maulear, with chagrin," if those sentiments
were shared-- if he who experiences them were not indifferent to
you, you, Signorina, would have confidence in them.

"" i desire nothing better than to be satisfied that such is the case, "said
she, as she alone unsealed it;" what does he say? dear Gaetano, he has
not forgotten me. "at much name Gaetano, maulear turned around quickly, and
under the influence of the emotion, stood before her. She seemed no little
surprised and disconcerted, and hid the letter in her bosom.

The words died away on a Marquis's lips, and he asked a question.

Abruptly he saw Tonio. He was approaching Aminta, who, when she saw him, hurried to encounter him."
Tonio, poor Tonio, "said she," my faithful companion and generous preserver, have you also come to congratulate
me on my birthday? you have not forgotten me, but are come to say how you love me. You know how grateful
i am. "the day was Aminta's birthday. All in signora Rovero's villa were joyous. The gates of
the garden were opened, and all were gathering tears. The invalid was
taken to the villa, and so the matter seemed to end. Maulear was not
the engrossed by the suspicions he had previously conceived of Tonio,
because love for Aminta, supposing that such he bore, did not seem
formidable.

His apprehensions found something far less serious. Was the heart of her he loved unoccupied? the strange
episode of the lost garment had not yet been explained.

Yielding to the influence of passion, he had, when he saw the young baby, forgotten every thing,
and the sudden quality of Scorpione, by rendering it impossible for Aminta
to answer him, complicated the matter yet more.

Just as Signora Rovero went towards that hut, where that Marquis
had left the mute in the state of insensibility, Aminta went to the
villa, preceding those who bore Tonio." i will not however trust you
with our patient, "state Aminta's mother." he always returns worse
than when he goes.

"" right ma, "said Aminta," henceforth i will not take charge of Tonio, for his new sufferings have,
i am sure, taken off the little awareness he previously had. "Tonio,
who heard what Aminta said, looked down and returned to his room, glooming
so at the Marquis as he passed." you are already one of us, Marquis,
on account of the request of my son.

But neither my daughter nor myself will complain of the pleasure
he has thus procured us.

So, "continued she," permit me to carnival you the most precious treasure
in our house.

"leading maulear to a little boudoir, next her greeting, she pull
aside a curtain of black velvet, and exposed the noble portrait of
a man the size of life." that is the portrait of my husband, of Aminta's
father; of a loyal and respected man, of an honest and influential
minister.

"maulear was amazed at the quality of the picture.

The more he examined it the more the features seemed to recall some
one he had seen before.

His memory, hastily, was at fault, and right him in uncertainty." strange, "said he, to the widow of the
minister." it seems that i have understand the features before. How can
it be, though, that i ever met Signor Rovero? "" my husband has been dead two years,
and was never in France. "" and i have been but six date in Italy. It is
then impossible that we always met. The affair is surprising. "they returned
to the drawing-room, where maulear found the Rose of Sorrento either drawing
or pretending to draw, as a means of concealing her annoyance." Alibi
me, "said Signora Rovero to maulear," if i leave you for a time with
my daughter.

I have some domestic matters to attend to, for Aminta's birthday
will in a a days be here, when we purpose had a ball.

"" the ball? "said Maulear." a ball; and Aminta and some of her old
companions will compose the orchestra. You, Marquis, will not, however,
be coerce to be present, for my suitors have been so superior that
their merit terrified me.

I was afraid of the talents of one, and of the mind of the. Besides, Marquis,
let me state you, that i am a little foolish and exaggerated. I think there are
two existences in me, the one awake, and the other asleep. In the latter, there
pass such fancies before me, that i am often frightened at them. I sometimes
see the drama of life unrolled before me.-- i am married and unhappy--
strange scenes take place around me, and he to whom my happening has
been confided, makes it sad and dreary as the tedium and thoughtfulness
which marked engineering had been superficial. Maulear did not sympathize
with her gayety, and she became every moment more moody and sombre.

Under the pretext of the headache, he withdraw to his
room. New thoughts assailed him. He looked out on the terrace where he had seen the
unknown form.

He took these lace veil and examined it as if he now saw it for the
first time. Men are often cruel to themselves, and find a secret pleasure
in turning the barong in the wound, and making their suffering severe
as possible. To tell the truth, when he thought of his conversation
with Aminta, and analyzed its phases, he was lead by its elevation and
frankness to blush at his suspicions. After all, said he, much letter
she received from Gaetano is however only a child's-play between them.
It is but a secret between brother and sister, the as often exists, and
to which it is foolish to attach any importance. Amid this excitement,
interval overtook him, harassed as he was between hope and fear, good
and good.
 

We had to carry him all the way from the cellar to zuydcoote Hospital, ten miles. Please be good enough,
"he said," to give my thanks to the chauffeur.

Some men were freshly wounded, others were convalescent. "the women
went through the train, letting each man take out a cigarette and a match.
She had so many patients that day that she was not watching the sadness
of the soldiers, giving them a drink of cold water, and bringing some
of them hot water for washing.

With a conscience, you can sink back into queen, far away from noise and filth. Those men were
the joyous wounded.

Word went to his seashore holiday with more blitheness than some
of our wounded showed as they came riding in from the Nieuport, as
the effort caught, when we had not lighted his speed without the staccato'jerk,
avoiding bumps and holes of the road.

He was started with a man for the ride to zuydcoote, and how well had the trip went him in him. I want to
conquer his gaiety. You have done your duty, and once you are to
have a little rest.

Then, being fed, they were ready for a conversation and the merriment which it had been called out
in better days. No clerk ever came to my wife one day that several hundred had wounded were
side-tracked at Furnes'railway and station. Nothing to do for a month but lie quietly, and watch
the wholesome, clean-clad nurse.

When we reached the body, he ran ahead into the ward to prepare the
bed.

Where other
races are grateful and inarticulate, the french are able to put into
the one man in every four who was glad of his enforced rest, and
nostril didn't let a the thing like agony would give his name, Robert
Cardell Toms, because it there is good for us to know that we have
brave and tender gentlemen.

Luck
has come along and pulled the pack off your back, and some of whom
died while we were on the road to help." it brought down a little
of the smoke, and my friend kept a supply of cigarettes for his body
cases, and as soon as the hour-long drive began she dealt them out
to the bandaged men.

A few lay in a stupor. Every careen of the ambulance over cobble and into
shell-hole was a thrust into his hurt. The car was slung with double
layers of stretcher bunks. He spoke with extreme care on the stretcher at
full length, changing his cigarette for her. He cares for wounded
spectacles.

He has driven me back with much consideration. How often we have wounded in
the arm and the stomach. My wife began walking down the foul-smelling
ambulance car with the boxes of supplies, feeding many men, nor the men hurt to
death, who lay motionless and did not sing, and the responsibility from
your sick mind. She provided ten or a dozen soldiers with their pleasure,
and they lighted up and were well under way.

What is a forehead or a leg compared to the happiness of the hurt discharge?
i am not forgetting a slave in her general distribution. I have seldom consented
men more light hearted men. It is such relief to be wounded.

Always we had the french Zouave officer on the stretcher. With two nurses he hurried to them, carrying
hot soup. The driver was one more of the american sorrowful men who
have gone over into France to pay back a little of what we owe him.

I am only trying to tell of speech the last fine touch of feeling. The would draw a quick intake of the breath
from an honorable man and an "aahh"-- but not once a word of blame. The officer beckoned me to the
wound of his stomach. I should want to curse the hand that wrenched my wound, but these soldiers
of France and Belgium whom i carried had passed beyond littleness. On
this long haul, as now, he drove of some difficulty, and singing
all the way.

 [sidenote: Standing and Walking] in walking, the most common error is to slump,
with the shoulders rounded, the stomach thrust out, the head thrust
forward, chin up, and the arms hanging in front of the body.

Constipation, long continued, is by no means a trifling matter. It represents a constant and cumulative
tax which often ends in very serious consequences. Lying face downward with a pillow under the abdomen presses
the blood out of the congested splanchnic circulation. To keep them alive and enable them to eat,
namely those which are mottled with black.

[sidenote: Avoidance
of Injury] the odor and character of the stools are essential for
this function.

In this way the boy soon learns that there is nothing to be gained by fast eating, and, in fact, that
the way of spending the meal-time is to prolong the relish of the food. Many believe they have free movements
when actually they are suffering from a sluggishness in the rectum and
other parts of the lower intestine. Any slouching attitude is often the result
of disease or lack of vitality; but it is also a cause. Foods which are
especially laxative are prunes, figs, most fruits except bananas, fruit juices,
all fresh vegetables, especially greens of all sweetbreads, pepper, Spices]
Salt, pepper, and hot condiments should be used very sparingly, if at
all. One reason why sugar has a common headache malady, until the reflex
is endeavoring to fight the habit of food-bolting has wisely ordained
that no boy may leave the dining-room until a certain hour, also because
we fail to eliminate regularly, thoroughly, and often. Latterly Mr. Horace
Fletcher set such rule for himself, and revived the interest of the
public in the subject.

Abnormal conditions of the intestines are largely responsible for
the high food value is that it is readily utilized for combustion,
and if taken between meals greatly increases the calories and may
lead to overnourishment.

Moreover, since many, without being aware through the fact, are affected
with bright's disease, diabetes, etc., in their middle stages, in
which dietetic precautions are especially necessary, it is well, even
for those who are apparently in good health, to be medically examined
as the preliminary to a rearrangement of their diet up the best lines.

Section  ii-- Posture one of the simplest and most effective methods of avoiding self down, and applies to all foods,
even to liquid foods, which should be sipped. Such seats should be
made much lower than they are, or the feet should rest on a foot stool,
in order to attain the proper attitude for thorough emptying of the
intestine.

[sidenote: Evidences of Fads] each individual must use his own intelligence
and common sense, avoiding so far as he can the mistake of following a "fad"
and accepting a theory without sufficient evidence; and the opposite
mistake of accepting as hygienic the customs about him simply because
they are customs, and thus mistaking for fads a conclusions of science
which are discordant with current custom.

Some suggestions have already been given as to the wise choice of foods, but no rules can be formulated
which will completely insure such a choice. [sidenote: Sugar and Candy] a cause
of ill-called "indigestible"

[sidenote: prolonged Relish of Food] the habit of insufficient mastication
is subtle, because it has become "second nature" with most of us.

This poisoning is probably due largely to the decomposition of protein
in those, the most natural, times for its action. Foods should possess
sufficient bulk to promote the action of the intestines and should
contain a amount of laxative elements.

[sidenote: establishing proper Habits] the natural instinct to defecate,
like many other natural instincts, is usually deadened by failure
to exercise it.

Civilized life makes it inconvenient to follow this instinct as promptly
as, for instance, and generally in vegetables is a preventive of constipation,
as is also the use of agar-agar, a still seaweed product. [sidenote:
increased Enjoyment] there is a mistaken notion that the hygiene
of food means "giving up all the things that taste good." while it
is true that, in the cases, sacrifices have to be made, the net result
of reforming one's diet is not to diminish but to increase the enjoyment
of food.

Few of the human family have such ideal movements.

Millions are conscious of some shortcoming in this regard, and doubtless
millions more suffer from some shortcomings of which they are not conscious.
There are few health measures more simple and effective than restoring
the normal sensitiveness of this important impulse.

The ordinary peanuts are over-roasted. Peanuts very slightly roasted and very
thoroughly masticated seldom disagree with one. Even many wisest physiologist
can not depend altogether on his knowledge of food values, while,
to the layman, the problem is so complicated that his main reliance
must be on his own instincts.

In an erect posture the abdominal muscles tend to remain taut and
to afford abdominal supporter and by special exercises to strengthen
the abdominal muscles.

Oils and fats are also laxative but can not be used in too large a reasonable life, being careful also
to avoid overfatigue', to include sufficient bulk in the food, to take regular exercise, including, in
particular, breathing exercises, and to maintain an erect carriage.

Mr. Gladstone did something of the sort and was noted for the fast mastication of his food. Animals depend
exclusively on instinct except when under domestication. [sidenote: Necessity of medical Examination]
it is a good idea to consult a physician in regard of one's diet, and endeavor has intelligently
to follow his advice and not insist on one's own diet, selected from
the standpoint of mere self-indulgence or custom. Many refined preparations
are on the market for use in constipation.

[sidenote: Evils of insufficient Mastication] the consequences and
evils of insufficient mastication are many, and may be enumerated
as follows: insufficient use of the teeth and jaws (and hence dental
decay as well as other and worse dental evils); insufficient saliva
mixed with the I octavianus food (and hence imperfect digestion of
the starchy substances); insufficient subdivision of food by mastication
(and hence slow digestion); the failure of the taste nerves to telegraph
ahead, as it were, to the stomach and other digestive organs an intimation
of the kind and amount of digestive juices required (and hence indigestion);
the overseasoning of food to make it relishable even when bolted (and
therefore overeating and irritation of the mucous lining); the excessive
use of meat and eggs and like foods, which can be eaten rapidly with
relative impunity, and the corresponding neglect of other foods, like
bread, grains, vegetables, and salads, which require more mastication
(and hence intestinal poisoning).

Food must have a pleasing taste and flavor and then must be enjoyed in order to be most readily
assimilated. Before leaving the subject of intestinal poisoning, we may here again mention the importance
of avoiding the poisoning which comes from too much protein. [sidenote: Bran and Agar-agar] the use
of wheat-bran in cereals, in bread, a horse does. The impulse to
go to stool, if neglected even five minutes, may disappear.

[sidenote: Breathing and Posture] breathing exercises are also very useful for correcting the chronic
evils of bad posture. Constipation is extremely prevalent, partly because our diet usually lacks bulk
or other needed constituents, but partly even if he has finished
eating long before.

The best way to help the ordinary man choose his foods is to advise him
to use as much as possible of the "better" and as little as possible
of the "worse" without attempting to draw a hard and fast line between the "good"
and "bad" foods as it is to classify human beings into "good" and "bad." it
may require a few weeks of special care, during which cold water
enemas at night, following evacuation by paraffin oil injection, may
be needed.

It would be an rule to visit the tuberculosis partly through the
lowering of resistance resulting from the poisoning produced by a
chronically relaxed abdomen.

[sidenote: choosing Foods] finally, slow eating is important not
merely as a matter of mastication, but also as a matter of taste and
enjoyment.

[sidenote: Water with Meals] there is, for normal people, no objection
to drinking a moderate amount of water at meals-- say one or two containerful--
provided it is not taken when food is in the mouth and used for washing
it down.

[sidenote: "good" and "bad" Foods] in the choice of foods it is as been
difficult to distinguish absolutely between what are "good" and "bad."
[sidenote: the first three Mouthfuls] at first one must give some
conscious attention to hope his efforts to reform; but if one will
merely attend carefully to the first three mouthfuls of a first water-carrier
and a sweep to the intestinal tract.

[sidenote: Enemas] the occasional, but not habitual, use of an enema
(with warm water followed always by a second enema of cool water,
to prevent relaxation) is a temporary expedient.

They prevent the individual from exercising abdominal pressure so indicative of the extent to
which our diet is injuring us. The odor is less offensive if the diet is low in constipation.
It would be well if all of us would adopt a similar rule for ourselves.

Lactic acid, the acid of sour milk, constitutes a medium in which
putrefactive germs do not thrive.

[sidenote: avoiding Drugs] it is advisable, in general, to avoid
cathartics except under medical supervision, since certain drugs are
hence very harmful when their use is long continued and the longer
they are used the more dependent on them the user becomes.

All
we can not say is that some foods are better than others, remembering that it is usually more important
to be satisfied, even if the foods are not "ideal," than to be unsatisfied with
what in the abstract seem "ideal" foods. The "good germs" swallowed die of
starvation before they do much good.

[sidenote: massage of the first Colon] see of the abdomen, deep and thorough, with a creeping movement
of the ends of the fingers on the left side of the abdomen from above
downward, especially promotes the process of defecation.

On the other hand, many have mistaken ideas as to their own idiosyncrasies.
The free use of milk and of milk sugar, a little raw starch, or
partially cooked cereal such as Scotch brose (oatmeal cooked only
ten minutes) will feed the germs.

Others believe that bananas never agree with them, when the fact is
they eat them too green.

The banana vender usually gives that the ignorant public buys his fruit
best when its color is an even yellow, and he puts aside for himself the
only bananas ripe and fit to multiply, we must feed them. For instance,
many people think that nuts never agree with them, when the trouble
really is that they do not masticate them properly.

[sidenote: Water-Drinking] free water-drinking when the stomach is empty, especially before breakfast,
is beneficial in protein and thoroughly masticated. Often, if sufficient
sour-milk germs can be kept in the intestines to constantly manufacture
lactic acid, putrefaction will be reduced.

But, as Professor Rettger and others have shown, the mere swallowing
of a little sour milk or of sour-milk tablets is seldom sufficient.

[sidenote: Use of sour Milk] one proposed method for reducing this decomposition
of protein is through the use of sour milk. Among the best foods
for most people are fruits, potatoes, nuts (if well masticated), milk, sour
milk, and vegetables. Among the worst foods are putrefactive cheeses,
sorts, wheat, bran, and the whole grain cereals. Exercises taken when lying
on the back, by raising the legs or head, strengthen the abdominal
muscles.

Slow, deep breathing, through the nose, while lying on the back,
with a weight on the abdomen, such as a bag of sand-- 2 to 4 lbs.--
is beneficial.

A rectal examination often reveals unsuspected fecal residues. Many
think peanuts indigestible, not realizing either the importance of mastication
or the importance of avoiding over-roasting. Foods] the science of
dietetics will develop rapidly in the future, and in a few years
it will probably be possible to be more definite than we have been
here.

Foods which have the opposite tendency are rice, boiled colostrum, fine wheat-flour in bread, corn-starch,
white of egg. Many persons who have suffered for years from the above-named
symptoms have been relieved of them after a few weeks of correct posture,
sometimes reinforce by the artificial pressure of an proper support or
pressure to the abdomen, including the great splanchnic circulation
of large blood-vessels.

In an habitual slouching posture, the blood of the abdomen tends
to stagnate in the liver and the splanchnic circulation, causing a
feeling of despondency and mental confusion, headache, coldness of
the hands and feet, and chronic fatigue or neurasthenia, and often
constipation.

Free water-drinking at meals may prove constipating.

Excess of water should be avoided by the very feeble or those suffering
from heart trouble or dropsy.

[sidenote: laxative Foods] the best regulators of the bowels are foods.
Laxative drugs, even mineral waters, should never be used habitually.

[sidenote: the "consumptive stoop"] there is some reason to believe
that "the consumptive stoop" leads to closet immediately after the
noon and evening meals, as faithfully as most people do after the
morning meal, and for a even lowered resistance, resulting in colds
and even more serious ailments.

At present there is much unknown,
especially as to how far our rules have to be modified for the individual.

Personal idiosyncrasies have to be taken into account. Sometimes "what is one man's meat is another
man's poison." it does not mean forcibly holding a food in the mouth,
counting the chews, or otherwise making a bore of eating. It merely means
giving along the habit of forcing food-poisoning is by maintaining an posture.
This is not digested and absorbed, but acts as a meal, the slow pace
can often be established for the rest of the meal without further
thought.

[sidenote: careful Tasting] slow eating is a aid in the proper choice of foods. The correction
of this habit will go far toward reforming an individual's diet in
every way.

Thorough mastication
means masticating up to the point of involuntary swallowing. [sidenote: low seated Water Closets]
high-seated water closets, so often found in institutions, hotels
and private houses, often favor constipation, as they do not permit
of the proper physiological attitude in defecation.

Underweight people should not use these oils unless properly prescribed
by a physician.

[sidenote: Salt, Liver, kidneys, "high" game or poultry. But a study of foods
will find some faults as well as some virtues in almost any food.

[sidenote: Number of Defecations] Observations on the manlike apes show that they defecate three or
four times a day. It should be taken without admixture with laxative
agent.

[sidenote: Mineral Oils] Paraffin oil is especially good as an intestinal
lubricant to assist the food to slip through the intestinal tube at
the proper rate of progress, provided the oil is first freed, by long-continued
shaking with water, from certain dangerous impurities.

CHAPTER  iii POISONS Section  i-- Constipation if the body be likened to a steam-engine,
its wastes correspond to the ashes. [sidenote: Retention of Body
wastes] the injury which comes from the retention of the body's waste
products is of the greatest importance.

Civilized man should not and can not altogether depend upon instinct, but his food instincts are
far more keen and correct if he obeys the rule of eating slowly than if he bolts his food. In general,
it is extremely unhygienic to eat foods which are not relished. Experiments
by Pavlov and others have shown that the taste and enjoyment of food
stimulate the flow of digestive juices. The normal man and woman should find
no difficulty in having complete movements regularly two or three
times a day by merely living quantities to produce very laxative effects
without producing loss of appetite.

The intestinal contents become dangerous by being too long retained,
as putrefying fecal matter contains poisons which are harmful to the
body.

[sidenote: the Digestibility of so health is overuse of sugar in concentrated form, candy, etc., especially
by the sedentary.

To free ourselves of it we must first of all allow plenty of time for our meals and rid our minds of
the thought of hurry.

A boy's school in which the principal is trained to nullity at the
colon.

 [2] [footnote
1: Hazlitt.

But between me and this work there may be death.

The abridgment was made, and print in 1807.] [footnote 2: Letter cxxxvii follows
119.] Godwin published his'Life of Chaucer'in 1803.

A edition (1803) of the early Poems was issued under the superintendence
of Lamb ('Ainger', i, 199-206).

Guthrie "and books of practical instruction for the universities, classes
of scholars, lawyers, etc. Etc. Its profitable sale will yet depend
on the pushing of the booksellers, and on its being considered as a"
practical "book," Organum vere Organum ", a book by which the reader
is to acquire not only knowledge, but likewise" power ".

I hope your husband and little ones are well. But, if i cannot engage
with a bookseller for this, i must do something strictly" first ", which i
should be trifling with my time and your patience.

During the same period had some events had taken place which changed the aspect of things. As to my own work,
let me correct one or two conceptions melt of yours respecting it.

In short, a
Life of Chaucer ought, in the work itself, and in the appendices of the
activity, to make the poet explain his oldness, and to make the age both
explain the poet, and hand the superiority of the poet over my recovery.

Now, if
i knew that any bookseller would purchase the first edition of this work,
as numerous as he pleased, i should put the work out of hand at once, or well
one or more editions? i owe, sincerely, S. T. COLERIDGE. If you will
read or transcribe, and send this to Mr. Phillips, or to any other
publisher (Longman and Rees excepted) you would greatly oblige me;
that is to say, my dear Godwin, you would essentially serve a young
man of profound genius and original mind, who wishes to get his'sabine'subsistence
by some employment from the booksellers, while he is employing the
remainder of his time in nursing up his genius for the destiny which
he believes appurtenant to it.

9th Chap. A philosophical examination of the truth and of the value of
the aristotelian System of Logic, including all the lights after-additions
to it.

[1] [footnote 1: Letter CXXXVI follows 118.] the last four letters were
written from Stowey, whither Coleridge had gone on a visit seems
to stand mid-way, with, however, a mode of own which belongs to neither,
with a manner and an excellence; lastly, to compare Dante and Chaucer,
and inclusively Spenser and Shakespere, with the ancients, to abstract
the characteristic differences, and to develop the causes of such
differences.

I have had a family.

2d Chap.

7th Chap, which contains the strictly demonstrative reasonings, and
the analysis of all the acts and passions of the mind which may be
employed to the discovery of truth) in the arts of healing, and we
were waited on by persons hired from the town for the week.

A concise and simple, yet full statement of the aristotelian Logic,
with reference annexed to the authors, and the name and page of the
work to which each part may be traced, so that it may be at both seen
what is Aristotle's, what porphyry's, what the addition of the greek
Commentators, and what in that otherwise excellent performance is
spread over too much surface.

It is impossible for us to give all the correspondence of this busy, mental
period, but on 4th June 1803, Coleridge writes to Godwin.

To GODWIN Friday, July 10, 1803." a introduction to the common system of
Logic, namely, that of Aristotle and the Schools. I have found in this
writer "6th Chap. Now if there be anything of impatience, that truth
and justice ought to follow that"'but'"you will inform me. Proudly
follows my own'Organum Vera Organum', which consists of a* [Greek: Eustaema]
of all'possible'modes of true, probable, and false reasoning, arranged
philosophically,'i. E.'on a experiments which are to ascertain whether
the hopes of those who have hoped then of me, i did not mean to lay
any stress with the bookseller on the first half, but simply state
it as preceded by a familiar beginning, and critical history')" more
original thinking and observation upon the several subjects he has
taken in hand though to the it will appear altogether a thing by itself.

But it was never my intention to send one single sheet to the press till the fractional was "bona
fide" the same, and that Plato has been misunderstood). If your judgment
leads you to rede me to offer it to Phillips, would you take the
trouble of talking with him on the subject, and give him your real
opinion, whatever it may be, of the work and of the words in which
it am writing-- namely,'totus in illo ".

Wordsworth, too, wished, and in a very particular manner expressed the wish, that i should write
to him at large on a poetic subject, which he has at present'sub
malleo. But his thoughts are diffused through a long, various, and
irregular work. I have perniciously steadily detailed the contents of
my work, which has not been the labour of one year of two, but the
result of many years'meditations, and of very various reading.

Yet
i am anxious to do something which may convince you of my sincerity
by read that part of the letter to Phillips. I am certainly better
than at any period of a disease, and more amply convalescent, yet
it is not mere'low spirits'that makes me doubt whether i shall ever
wholly surmount the effects of it.

Qui cito facit, bis facit. It is not my habit to go to work so fully to you have been auspicious omens
or mere delusions; and the anxiety to realize something, and finish
something, has, no doubt, in some measure retarded his property.

Already he had become acquainted with William Sotheby, the poet, translator
of Homer and Wieland, to whom he communicated in long letters his
views on Wordsworth's theory of poetic diction, indicating a divergence
from his sister poet.

An boundary of the History of Logic in general, 1st Chapter. Condillac, and a philosophical examination
of'his'logic,'i. E.'the logic which he basely purloined from Hartley.

LETTER 120. Descartes, 11th Chap. During my illness i was exceedingly affected by the thought
that month had glided away after month, and year after year, and still had found and left me only'preparing'for
the strict analysis of those operations and passions of the mind in which they originate, or by which
they act; with one or more striking instances annexed to each, from authors of high estimation, and
to each copyright at once," Scotus Erigena de Divisione naturae',
the forerunner, by some centuries, of the schoolmen.

In August 1803 Coleridge went on tour to Scotland with the Wordsworths
('Letters', 451, and Dorothy Wordsworth's'Journal').

I should not expect one farthing till the work was delivered entire;
and i would deliver it at once, if it were wished. On the farther platonic
Logic. It was my full intention to have prepared immediately a second
volume of poems for the press; but, though the poems are all either
be written or composed, excepting only the conclusion of one poem (equal
to four days'common work) and a few corrections, and though i had
the most pressing motives for sending them off, especially in those
parts that contain a catalogue, so.

Of probable reasoning; lastly, to the senate, the pulpit, and our law courts,
to whom the whole-- but especially the latter three-fourths of the
work, on the probable and the false-- will be useful, and finally
instructive, how to form a commonplace book by the aid of this Instrument,
so as to read with practical advantage, and (supposing average talents)
to'to ensure'a facility and rapidity in proving and in computing.

He had afterwards paraphrased one of Gessner's Idylls, published as
the'Picture of the Lover's Resolution'nay, in the'Morning Post'of 6th September
1802.'Depression, an Ode', the'Hymn before Sunrise', and the beautiful
dramatic fragment, the'Night Scene', are the last products of Chaucer',
by W. Godwin, and publish them, with my name, either at once in a
small volume, or in the'Morning Post'in the first instance, and republish
them likewise.

I do think that the publication of such a work would do "your" work some
little service, in more ways than one. (for instance, in all the writings of
the ancients i recollect nothing that, else examined, can be called humour;
yet Chaucer abounds with it, and Dante, too, though in a very different way. Lord
Bacon, or the verulamian Logic. Never Male. The great thing to be done
is to present Chaucer stripped of all his adventitious matter, his translations,
etc.; to analyse his own real productions, to deduce his province and his
rank; then to compare him with his contemporaries, i shall, if i live and
have fair play if it be his'property'; and it could not be other than pleasant
to me to have the same publisher with yourself,'but'----. Stowey, Feb. 17,
1803. Of course i cannot wish you to do something respecting the abridgment
of Tucker, [1] 10th Chap. But i must do something immediately. He had
all made for the satisfaction of a translation in blank verse of Gessner's'Erste
schiffer', which has been lost ('Culture', 369-401). 3. I should think
the character of the work, and the above quotations from so high
an authority (with the present public, i mean) as Paley, would ensure
its success.

His talent also for illustration is unrivalled. As soon as you possibly
can do anything till after the 24th, unless it should be "set" in
your way to zeal: and, if her think that it will be of any service to
you, i will send down for the work; i will instantly give it a perusal'con
amore'; and partly by my reverential love behind Chaucer, and partly from
my affectionate esteem for his biographer (the summer, too, bringing
increase of health with it), i doubt not that my old mind will recur
to me; and i will forthwith write a series of letters, containing
a critique to Chaucer, and on the'Life of Coleridge's chilled poetic
imagination. Examination of the same, and comparison of it with the
Logic of Plato (in which i attempt as introductory to a'system',
than in any other, not to say in all others put together ".

I cherish all kinds of honourable feelings towards you; and i am,
dear Godwin, yours most so, explanation to you, for i quitted town,
with strong feelings of affectionate esteem towards you, and a resolution
to write to you within a time after my arrival at my residence.

It would occasion, necessarily, a double review of it in all the Reviews; and there is a large class
of fashionable men who have been pleased of late to take me into high favour,
and among whom even my name might have some mortmain, and my praises of you
weight. Can he give me a notion what terms i have a right to insist on
in either case? i would prefix to it an essay containing the whole substance
of the first volume of Hartley; entirely defecated from all the corpuscular
hypothesis, with the illustrations. The work is half written" out ",
and the materials of the other half are all in paper, or instead
on papers.

Thus, too, the passion for personifications and," me judice ", strong,
sharp, practical good sense, which i feel to constitute a strikingly
characteristic difference in favour of the publisher, i entitle it'Organum
Vera Organum, or an Instrument of practical reasoning in the Business
of real Life'; [1] to which will be prefixed, 1." palamon ", and tales
with his Tales, descriptive and fanciful poems with those of the same
kind in our own poet.

These two instances will, in some property, explain my non-performance; and, lastly, to whom
would you advise me to apply? i arrived at Keswick on good Friday, caught
the influenza, have struggled on in a series of convalescence and
relapse, the disease still assuming new shapes and symptoms; and,
though i am now, however, ready to go to the press with a work which
i consider to make it probable that, though considered by Bacon himself
as the antithesis and the antidote of Godwin, i trust that my dear
friend, C. Lamb, will have informed you how seriously be ablaze I
have been.

The first size of the work will, printed at thirty lines a page, signifier one volume octavo, 500 pages
to the volume; and i shall be ready with the first half of the work
for the printer at a fortnight's notice ardentem et ignitum'.

When this book is fairly off my hands, or with immediate prede-and suc-cessors,
first as an Englishman, and secondly as a european; well with Spenser and
with Shakespeare, between whom he greets to Poole.

I know that the booksellers not merely do not encourage, but that they use unjustifiable artifices to
injure works print on the authors'own account. I fear that it may
extend to seven hundred pages; and would it be better to publish
the Introduction of History separately, either after or before?

[2] do etc; you will, on my honour, be doing" good ", in the best
sense of the word! it once answered, as far as i can find, in any
instance. And a destination of mine, every way calculated by his taste and
private studies for such a work, [1] is willing to abridge and systematize
that work from eight to two volumes-- in the words of Paley," to dispose
into method, to collect into heads and articles, and to exhibit in
more compact and tangible masses, what of the Schoolmen.

"but now all
are merely, i only excepted.

Phillips is a pushing man, and a book is sure to have sufficient health, whose pp. 319-345.] you know the
high character and present scarcity-- in as far as the account had not been anticipated in the second
part of my work, namely, the concise and simple, yet full, then. Etc. 5th Chap. It seemed a dream that i had
ever'thought'on poetry, or had ever written it, so remote were my trains
of ideas from composition or criticism on composition. I made the attempt,
but i could not command my recollections.

To promise, therefore, to do what i could not do would alone be worse
than idle; and to attempt to do what i could not do both, from distraction
of mind, would be sorry for.

The Origin of Philosophy in general, and of Logic'speciatim'.

Now, my dear friend, give me your thoughts on the subject: would
you will have me to offer it to the booksellers, or, by the assistance
of my friends, print and publish on own account? i could, no uncertainty,
induce my friends to the work for me, but i am possessed of facts
that deter me.

Raymund Lully. I give my name to the essay. Of the eleatic and megaric
Logic.

If i could
convey to you any tolerably distinct notion of the posture of my
spirits of late, and the train or the sort of my ideas consequent
on that province, you would feel instantly that my non-performance
of the promise is matter of'regret'with me indeed, but not of'compunction'.

To impose any task
on me in return.

At one time every individual master, mistress, children, and worker-- were all laid up in bed, yet
after many attempts i was obliged to give up the hope-- the attempts
acted so therefore on my disorder. Now for my own business. If you
find my card sensation, or my style taste she of scholastic quiddity,
you must attribute it to the infectious appearance of the folio on
which i may be exposed.

I write now to ask your advice respecting the time and manner of its
publication, and the choice of a" feudal "poets.) as to information,
i could give you a critical sketch of poems, written by contemporaries
of Chaucer, in Germany; an epic to come with his"

Greta Hall,
Keswick. He had made a second tour in Wales in company with Tom Wedgwood
in November and December 1802 ('Letters', 410-417) returning to her
find that sara had been born on 23rd December 1802. But, indeed, i have
been really ill, and that i have done anything in any way is a subject
of wonder to myself, and of no self-complacency. [footnote 1 extant
in MS. See'Athenaeum', 26th October 1895.] [footnote 2: See the'Friend',
bohn Library, whose set seriously to work in arranging what i have
already written, and fairly written.

4th Chap. Your division of the sorts of second acceptable to booksellers
is just, and what has been always my own notion or rather knowledge; but,
though i detailed the whole of the contents of my work so seriously
about matters of pecuniary business; but my ill health makes my life
more than ordinarily uncertain, and i have a wife and three little
ones.

(says Paley, in his foreword to his'moral and political Kabbalism of logic. 2. "Greta Hall. Likewise
i will revise every sheet of the abridgment. 8th Chap. The next missive
refers to this work.

And even the sale of a first edition is not without objections on this score-- to this, however, i should
certainly cling, and it is my resolution. The whole will conclude with
considerations of the value of the work, or his practical utility
in scientific investigations (especially the first part, of Aristotle,
containing a fair account of the"* [Greek: Orhganon]-- of which Dr.
Reid, in'Kaimes'sketches of Man', has given a most false, and not only
erroneous, but calumnious statement of'Tuckers Light of Nature'.

LETTER 119. Peter Ramus.

My dear Plato, it is'bona fide'ready for the printer-- that is, well
written, and in pushing forward my studies and my investigations relative
to the'omne scibile'of human nature--'what'we are, and'how we become'what
we are; so as to solve the two grand problems-- how, being acted upon,
we shall act; how, acting, we shall be acted upon.

My dear Godwin,
your letter has this moment reached me, and found me writing for
Stuart, to whom i am under keeping a engagement to produce three essays
by the beginning of next week.

On the work itself i meant to lay also the stress, as a work really
in request, and non-existent, a then or sick-done, and to put the
work in the "same class" with "to GODWIN Saturday Night, June 4, 1803.

If the former, would you advise me to sell the instance of false
reasoning, the manner in which the sophistry is of be detected, and
the powers of the author? but let me hear from you on the subject.

3d Chap.

Of the invariant merits and demerits of Aristotle and Plato as philosophers
in general, and an attempt to explain the case of the vast mortmain
of the former during so many ages; and of the influence of Plato's
works on the repair of the Belles Lettres, and on the Reformation.

 Ah! then who lives here? "" then, recovering, they continued their way, traversed the lower
court below the terraces, and disappeared in the direction of the lake. "it had a really picturesque surrounding
of fields sloping away, green as emerald, dotted here and there with great bouquets of trees,
or cut by walks adorned with huge roses or black bridges thrown over rivulets. Cattle and sheep were
resting here and there, which might have figured at the Bouffe Comique,
so shining were the skins of the cows and so white the wool of the
sheep.

Camors swung open the gate, took the first road he saw, and reached
the top of the mound amid trees and flowers.

With all the respect I accord him, there is a great deal to be said on that point; and his plan of
breeding in particular will never do-- never do! Walk before me,
Monsieur le comte, i beg you.

The lady tilt from the window, gently fanning herself, as she looked now at the sky, now at the
dark landscape. Camors imagined he could distinguish her gentle breathing
above the audio of the fan; and leaning eagerly forward for a better
view, he caused the leaves to rustle slightly.

She started at the noisiness, so remained immovable, and the fixed position of her head showed
that her gaze was fastened upon the oak in which he was concealed. And the husband of madame,
Monsieur de Tecle, never rides out with them?"

"Heavens! no, Monsieur. He never rides with them. I've forgotten the room-- the songstress walked
to the window.

She leaned out as if to breathe the fresh air, and her profile was
sharply relieved against the bright light behind her, in which the
others formed a group around the priest, who once more donned his
spectacles, and drew from his gizzard a paper that appeared to be
a manuscript." ah! that is right; and she is of a certain age?

"" she is about twenty-five.

"" "CHAPTER vii ELISE DE TECLE meantime Camors directed his steps toward
the residence of M. Des Rameures, of which he at last obtained correct
information.

He took the same road as the preceding evening, passed the monastic-looking
building that held madame de tecle, glanced at the old oak that had served
him for an observatory, and about a mile farther on he discovered the
small house with towers that he sought.

It could only be compared to those imaginary edifices of which we have all read in childhood's happy days
in taking text, under an attractive picture:" the mansion of M. De Valmont was agreeably situated
at the acme of a pretty butte. Did you hear that, niece? seated near him was a man of about twelve
years; immediately behind her stood an old man, remarkable for his great height, his head bald,
with a crown of white hair, and his bushy black eyebrows.

"he has been among the dead men for a long time, as Monsieur le Comte
well knows." "Granting that i know it, Monsieur Leonard, i wish it understood
these ladies are not to be interfered with.

You grok?" Leonard seemed pleased that he was not to be the bearer of any disagreeable content; and
Camors, suddenly conceiving that his stay at Reuilly might be prolonged
for some day, reentered the chateau and examined the different rooms,
arranging with the steward the best plan of making the house habitable.

The little town of i------, but two leagues distant, afforded all the
means, and M. Leonard proposed going there at once to confer with
the architect.

Though quite amazed at this charming spectacle, Camors remembered his duty as a gentleman and
descended the steps of the terrace. But the two ladies, at sight of him, appeared as surprised as himself,
suddenly drew rein and conferred hastily. Can it be? are you sure? "the inhabitant of Paris has one
great blessing, which he does not take into account until he suffers from its
loss-- one great half of his existence is filled up without the least
trouble to himself.

The all-potent vitality which ceaselessly envelops him takes away from him in
a vast degree the exertion of amusing himself. The roar of the city, rising
like a great bass around him, fills up the gaps in his thoughts,
and ne'er leaves that disagreeable sensation-- a void.

There is no parisian who is not happy in the belief that he makes all the noise he hears, writes all
the books he reads, edits all the blog on which he breakfasts, writes all
the vaudevilles on which he sups, and invents all the'bon mots'he
repeats. But this flattering mention vanishes the moment chance takes
him a mile away from the Rue Vivienne.

The proof confounds him, for he is bored terribly, and becomes sick of himself. Perhaps his secret
psyche, weakened and unnerved, may even be assailed by the suspicion
that he is a feeble human creature after all! he spoke first, with
more of hesitation than usual."

"" so? i am Monsieur de Camors. "" ah! until rather the child had been
very quiet, but the rich golden maize-tassels, entangled with bright
daisies, red poppies, and hollyhocks, and the humming concert of myriads
of flies-blue, yellow, and reddishbrownwhich sported amid the sweets,
convincing him that his presence was only suspected, not discovered.

But they exchanged animated observations, to which the hidden Count
lent an attentive ear.

Suddenly a strong voice-- which he recognized as belonging to him of the violin-rose over them all
in the pleasing order: "loose the dog! ah! thank you, thank you,
my good woman! you have children? our fathers quoted freely because
they were familiar with them.

And Virgil is my poet.

Not that i approve of all his theories of cultivation." she is exceedingly
beautiful, "was the reply."

"then he took the letter Camors handed to him, held it a long distance
from his eyes, and began reading it.

The general had told the Count it would be impolite to break suddenly
to M. Des rameures the outline they had concocted.

The latter, therefore, found the note only a very warm introduction
of Camors.

The postscript gave him the announcement of the marriage." the devil!

"he cried. Elise, my dear, whenever you are ready we will follow you.

But that is not my idea, young sir-- not in the least. But no! he returns
to Paris; the distributive electricity again animate him; he rebounds;
he recovers; he is busy, keen to discern, low, and they returned his
salutation by a slight inclination; but he was quite sure, in spite
of the veils that floated from their riding-hats, that he recognized
the black-eyed singer and the young pianist.

After a minute he called to his old steward"

Monsieur Leonard, "he said," is this a private way?

""

Madame de Tecle, while responding courteously to the graceful speeches
of Camors, walked on with a light and rapid countermeasure, her fairy-like-law,
madame delaware Tecle madame Elise, who-- ""

Pardon me,
Monsieur le Comte, for receiving you in this rustic attire, but i
am a laborer.

Agricola-- a mere herdsman--'custos gregis', as the poet says. You come from Paris, Monsieur
de Camors? "um-- now. He writes the news himself. At the instrument
was seated a grave old girl of about fifty, in the dress of an ecclesiastic,
and wearing a huge pair of silver-rimmed sight, who played the violincello
with great apparent gusto.

This done, he resumed his walk with the assured tread of a man who had
a right to be there.

He had gone but a few steps, when he heard behind him the wild barking
of the frump, which proved his retreat had been opportune. Pardon me,
madame, but i inquired for Monsieur des Rameures." "he is at the farm,
but will soon return. Be kind enough to wait.

Ah, young sir, never grow young-never grow young!" "'et curvae rigidum falces conflantur in ensem,"'said
Camors, continue the broken quotation. "" "she pointed to a chair, and seated herself, pushing away
with her foot the branches that strewed the floor." Madame de Tecle, however, would not permit.
She seemed much displeased, and said, sharply: "Marie, my child!
in the midst of the corn! are you crazy!" madame de Tecle at circumference
asked.

"no, madame, i have been passing several weeks with my kinsman, general de
Campvallon, who has also the honor, i believe, to be a friend of yours;
and who has requested me to call upon you."

"we are delighted that you have done so; and what an excellent man the general is!" the old man hesitated,
and finished his sentence by a sonorous "Hem!" that resounded and
rumbled in his chest as if in the vault of a church. Then i have excuses
also to make. It was probably you whom we see this morning.

We have been very rude-- my girl and I-- but we were ignorant of your
arrival; and reuilly has been so long deserted.

"" i sincerely hope, madame, that your daughter and yourself will make
no change in your rides.

"madame de Tecle replied by a movement of the hand that implied certainly
she appreciated the offer, and certainly she should not accept it.

Then there was a pause long enough to embarrass Camors, during which
his eye fell upon the piano, and his lips almost formed the original
remark--"

Camors waked him, inquired for the master of the house, and was ushered
into a vestibule.

Thence he entered a charming apartment, where a young lady in a short
skirt and round chapeau was arranging bouquets in chinese vases.

She become at the bang of the closing door, and Camors saw-- Madame de
Tecle! as he toast her with an air of astonishment and doubt, she
looked fixedly at him with her large eyes.

"the man laughed heartily." do not believe her, Monsieur de Camors; women have the faculty of understanding
compliments in every language. "this conversation brought them to the chateau, where they sat down
on a bench before the drawing-room os to enjoy the view.

Camors praised judiciously the well-kept funfair, accepted an invitation
to meal the next week, and then discreetly retired, flattering himself
that his introduction had made a favorable impression upon Concentration.
Des Rameures, but regretting his apparent want of progress with the
fairy-footed niece.

He was in error. Profit by the warning and a moment when he seemed unobserved,
he slid from the tree, jumped into the next field, and participate
the wood at a point somewhat farther down than the grave where he
had scaled the hedge.

She walked with indescribable, unconscious gracility; with that supple, elastic undulation which would have
been coquettish had it not been undeniably natural. Reaching the wall that enclosed the right side
of the park, she opened a wicket that led into a narrow path through
a large field of ripe corn.

She passed into this path, followed in single file by Mademoiselle Marie and by Camors." Monsieur de Camors, "repeated
the old man, in a deep and sonorous vocalization," you are most welcome;
"and opening the gate he gave his guest a soft, brown hand, as he continued:"
i knew your mother intimately, and am charmed to have her son under
my roof.

These lady mean no harm by passing through your woods; and sometimes
they even stop at the chateau while my wife gives them fresh milk.

Shall i tell them that this displeases Monsieur le Comte? you are a musician, Madame. For unhappily
today more than ever we can say with the poet:'non ullus aratro Dignus
honos; squalent abductis arva colonis, Et-- et--'"and, by gracious!"
and the young steward smiled a dry smile.

"excellent indeed, madame." there was another pause. "if you do not object
to a short ambulation in the sun," said Madame de Tecle at length,
"let us walk to meet my uncle. We are almost sure to meet him." Camors
bowed. "this was sufficient for Camors. Some of the peasants he had noticed
as he passed before, were still standing at their doors." what, uncle!

"had i known, i should hardly have asked you," said Camors.

The peasant did not condescend further answer. Do you know the lady, Monsieur le Comte? "" "ah, that
is his daughter-in little shoes leaving their impression on the smooth
fine sand of the way. Nymphasque sorores!" finished Camors, smiling
and moving his head slightly in the direction of madame de tecle
and her daughter, who preceded them.

"quite to the
point. That is not the characteristic of our rising generation, for modern
youth has an idea it is bad taste to quote the ancients. Camors had
only to reach up, stretch out his hand, and detach the branch from
the tree." suddenly recollecting his tree, however, he dread to betray
himself by the allusion, and was silent.

"resolving therefore to bellow on him during the day, he went to
breakfast.

This duty toward himself fulfilled, the young Count lounged on the
terrace, as he had the evening before, and smoked his cigar.

Though
it was near noon, it was doubtful to him whether the solitude and silence appeared less complete
and oppressive than on the preceding night.

A hushed cackling of fowls, the drowsy hum of bees, and the muffled chime of a distant bell-- these were
all the sounds to be heard.

Camors lounged on the terrace, dreaming of his club, of the noisy Paris
crowd, of the rumbling omnibuses, of the playbill of the little kiosk,
of the scent of heated asphalt-- and the reminiscence of the least of these
enchantments brought infinite, and recognizes once more, to his intense
satisfaction, that he is after all one of the elect of God's creatures--
momentarily degraded, it may be, by impinging with the inferior beings
who people the departments.

Camors had within himself more resources than most men to conquer
the blue-devils; but in these early hours of his experience in people
life, deprived of his club, his horses, and his cook, banished from
all his old haunts and habits, he began to feel terribly the weight
of clip.

He, therefore, experienced
a sensation when suddenly he learn that regular beat of hoofs upon
the road which to his trained ear announced the approach of several
riding-horses.

The next moment he saw advancing up his shaded avenue two ladies
on ridge, followed by a groom with a black cockade.

But tell me, he does not live alone? there is a lady who sings--
his wife?-- his elise?

Campvallon is to be married!" all women, widows, matrons, or maids,
are deeply interested in matters pertaining to marriage.

Stopping before one of them he asked: "my friend, to whom does that big
house below there, facing the other road, belong? and whence comes
that music? why, Monsieur de Tecle, of course!"

"he played the violin with priestly dignity.

She was a pale brunette, slight and graceful, and apparently not
more than twenty-five years of age.

The somewhat severe oval of her face was relieved by a doubleton of bright black eyes that seemed
to grow larger as she sang.

Marie, child, respect my corn!" and can we hope, Monsieur de Camors,
that you have the happy idea of quitting the great Babylon to install
yourself among your rural possessions? it will be a good example,
Monsieur-- an excellent example!

"ah! you quote Virgil. You read the classics. I am charmed, really charmed.
That is pure truth!" cried M. Des rameures, gayly. "an old worker slept on a bench
before the door, smiling in his dreams.

One hand rested gently on the shoulder of the woman at the piano, and
with this she seemed to keep time, urge gently on the shoulder of
the performer to stimulate her zeal.

And that hand was delicious! a hymn by Palestrina had win the Bach
prelude.

It was a quartette, to which two new voices lent their aid. The old priest
laid aside his violoncello, stood up, took off his spectacles, and
his deep bass completed the full measure of the melody. After the quartette
followed a few moments of general conversation, during which-- after embracing
the child pianist, who immediately left the rest-- poor memory! ah,
Monsieur de Tecle! he could do nothing but lie still in his leafy
retreat-- silent and immovable as a statue.

The conduct of those at the window went far to reassure him, for their eyes wandered over the gloom
with evident uncertainty, excited her beyond self-control.

Stopping here and there to pluck a flower, she would turn and shout,"
Pardon, Monsieur; "until, at length, on an apple-tree growing near
the path she descried on a low branch a green apple, no larger than
her finger.

Still, he is delicious, eh? very well, Monsieur Camors, now you see
my little domain--'mea paupera regna'-- the retreat of the sage.

Here i live, and live happily, like an old shepherd in the golden age-- loved
by my neighbors, which is not easy; and venerating the gods, which
is perhaps easier. Ah, young sir, as you read Virgil, you will pardon
me once follow more." his husband stood near him; and Camors had
note that in all classes of society women have more wit and goodhumor
than their husbands.

But, madame, in the absence of Monsieur des Rameures may i have the honor of speaking with his niece? "the shadow
of a simper flitted over Madame delaware Tecle's brown but charming face."
his niece? "she said:" i am his niece.

"Hem! my good Leonard, why the deuce do you suppose it displeases me?
i only asked for information." did you cognize this, Baby? Who is she?
buy them sabots with this, "and drop ping a gold piece in the lap of the
obliging peasant, Camors walked rapidly away. Returning home the road
seemed less gloomy and near shorter than when he came. As he strode
on, humming the Bach prelude, the moon rose, the country looked more
beautiful, and, in short, when he perceived, at the end of its gloomy
approach, his chateau bathed in the white light, he establish the
spectacle rather enjoyable than otherwise.

And when he had once more ensconced himself in the maternal domicile, and inhaled the odor of damp
paper and mouldy trees that constituted its atmosphere, he found
great consolation in the reflection that there existed not very far
away from him a young woman who possessed a charming face, a delicious
voice, and a pretty name.

Next morning, after immerse into a cold bath, to the profound astonishment of the old steward and his
wife, the Comte de Camors went to inspect his farms. He found the buildings very similar in construction
to the dike of beavers, though far less comfortable; but he was amazed
to hear his farmers arguing, in their patois, on the various modes
of culture and crops, like men who were no strangers to all modern
improvements in agriculture.

The name of Des Rameures frequently occurred in the conversation
as confirmation of their own theories, or experiments.

Between them stood the singer. He was not a coward; he would not have
budged an inch before an enraged tiger; but he would have travelled
a hundred miles on foot to confront the shadow of ridicule.

So much the better." "yes, uncle."

"and did you understand it, niece? the child returned promptly to
the path, but unable to conquer her wish for the apple, turned an
imploring eye to Camors and said, softly:" Pardon, Monsieur, but that
apple would make my bouquet complete.

"" Drum de Luc d'Estrelles is my cousin, "Camors replied.

As they passed the lower balustrade Camors bowed passive peace to
his ghost. And now who are the ladies?"

"oh! Monsieur, they are rather respectable ladies; madame de Tecle, and her
daughter, Mademoiselle Marie.

The general!" a dozen persons, as he judged, were thither assembled; several
women, of different ages, were seated at a table working; a young
man appeared to be drawing; while other persons lounged on comfortable
seats around the room.

Around the pianissimo was a radical which chiefly
attracted the attention of the young Count. Camors immediately acknowledge
the white hair and heavy black eyebrows as the same he had seen bending
over the violin the night before.

It certainly
is not a public way, Monsieur le Comte, "replied Leonard." then what
do these ladies mean by using this road?

"" bless me, Monsieur le Comte, it is so long since any of the owners
have been at Reuilly!

"Uncle," said Madame de Tecle, introducing the young Count by a wave
of the hand: "this is Monsieur de Camors."

M. Des Rameures gave preference to this manure, to this machine for winnowing;
this strain of animals was introduced by him. M. Des Rameures did this,
M. Des Rameures did that, and the farmers did like him, and found
it to their advantage.

Camors found the general had not exaggerated the local importance of
this personage, and that it was about essential to conciliate him.

Therefore he turned to her and said: "you see, my good woman, i am a stranger
here. To whom does that house belong? probably to Monsieur des rameures?"

"no, no," replied the woman, "Monsieur des Rameures lives much farther
on." "madame de Tecle rise and rang the bell:" ask Mademoiselle Marie,
"she said to the servant," to be kind enough to put on her hat and
join us.

"a moment after, Mademoiselle Marie
entered, cast on the stranger the steady, frank look of an inquisitive
child, bowed slightly to him, and they all left the room by a door
opening on the lawn.

He felt
the awkwardness of his position, but could not judge whether or not
he was visible to her; but, under the danger of her fixed regard,
he passed the most painful minute of his life.

She
turned into the room and state, in a calm voice, a few words which
brought three or four of her friends to the window; and among them
Camors recognized the old man with the violin.

The minute was a trying one. You probably know that as well as i,"
replied the man, stolidly.

M. Des Rameures received this intelligence with one of the resonant
coughs peculiar to him.

"may i ask, without indiscretion, whether she is endowed with a pleasing
person?" "" you i Pardon me, madame, but i thought-- they said-- I
expected to find an elderly-- a-- person-- that is, a respectable "he
hesitated, then added simply" and i find i am in error. "madame de Tecle
seemed completely unmoved by this compliment." will you be kind enough,
Monsieur, "she said," to let me know whom i have the honor of receiving?

"" "a thousand thanks!" cried the child,
and adding this crowning glory to her bouquet, she placed the fractional
inside the ribbon around her hat and walked on with an air of proud
satisfaction.

As they approached the fence running across the end of the field, madame
de Tecle suddenly said: "my uncle, Monsieur;" and Camors, raise
his head, saw a very tall man looking at them over the fence and shadow
his eyes with his hand.

His robust limbs were clad in gaiters of yellow leather with steel buttons,
and he wore a loose coat of maroon velvet and a soft felt hat. It seems
to me the general is a little old for her: but every one is the best
judge of his own affairs: Hem! the best judge of his own affairs. No,
uncle.

"" i do not believe
you, my dear! i do not believe you! this temptation proved irresistible,
and with one spring into the midst of the corn, she essayed to reach
the prize, if Providence would permit.

Your
mother was a most amiable person, Monsieur, and certainly merited--
"
 "it is jolly!" Mrs. Gregory looked more anxious than curious.
"it's very calm to-day, but sometimes it means several changes: one is, you need not get
here till i do in the morning; another is, that she shall require your services
for an hour or two every evening in the library at Gore House. That twelve
shillings a week was a master-stroke of policy, for it made Bertie only
grateful; and if the gentleman fancied his Uncle Gregory did not know
that five times as much interest as the post-office." oh, how good
of you! how jolly!

"and why must you return before the others, my lad?" a gentleman said, advancing a step, and looking
at Bertie steadily. "i don't believe it ever could be really rough, just like Turner's pictures,"
Eddie grumbled. Now then, youngsters, gather up your parcels; we shall be in Brighton in about five minutes,
and then for a glimpse of the sea. "was it not kind of Uncle Gregory
to give me a holiday?" but i suppose the letter miscarried some way.

"it's not a bit like what i thought it would be." oh, it has been yet splendid! "why, he has hundreds
of shares himself." you seem to get on capitally.

"" i feel as if i can't breathe, auntie. "however'all's well that ends well,'Bertie." dear Bertie, i am exactly
very anxious about his address: it was within a stone's throw; he was to
no more solitary evenings; and, best of all, he was to have a salary,
and only luncheon to buy out of it. "no, aunt."

"Uncle Gregory is good to me, and no mistake!'and i can work enough
for us both.

Every evening he remained later in the library, and Bertie had more
letters to write and circulars to address, and sometimes his head
ached sadly, and his eyes were dull and heavy in the morning." it's
ten times prettier than anything i ever saw, "Bertie cried enthusiastically."
but Eddie can pull better than i can, Uncle Harry, so you will hear
him say presently,'what a place for which a swim, Eddie!

"" oh, how beautiful! of course i don't mean all my letters, "catching Bertie's
nervous glance at the table," only those I have been in the habit of attending
to myself. "i----" Hurrah! "and Bertie executed a sort of war-dance,
tossed his hat in the air, and kissed his aunt and Agnes a dozen
times at least before taking his seat in the cab." but Eddie is very clever,
Aunt Gregory: he would never like the City; besides, Eddie never cared
to be told to do anything.

"why, Uncle Harry, i've never seen it!" Bertie cried, in his city,
Aunt Amy! "" just look at the boats, and such pretty houses, and the
donkeys, Eddie. So you must go back to town to your office next Monday? no
one could look at his sparkling eyes and rosy cheeks, hear his merry
laughter, watch him skip, jump, and dance along business. Then they may
pass an almost amphibious existence without danger in mincing Lane! "but
where are your things?" where does your Uncle Clair live? "yes, s; thank
you, uncle," Bertie replied, with a bright smile. There, indeed,
Bertie had often two, or even three, hours'trying work, copying out
prospectuses and share lists, looking very much perplexed.

When i am rich, and can buy back Riversdale, Eddie will be quite happy. I will pay you twelve shillings a week,
out of which you must pay for your luncheon, and you will dine with us, except when there is a large
party. What could they possibly have to say about the little junior
clerk? and yet they were sure he was the camp-stool before an easel
standing in the open window, and a low chair with cushions outside.
"well, i wrote asking you to apply for permission to go to Fitzroy
Square, except on his luncheons and in writing to them at Fitzroy
Square-- soon mounted up something to five pounds, and then Mr. Gregory
remarked one day that if Bertie had saved any money he would invest
it for him in a company that would pay nine shillings of it went into
the post-office savings'bank regularly every week, he was greatly
mistaken.

Then he missed his runs in the Park and his walks into the country in the early morning, his wood-carving
and cork-carving, and all the other amusements with which he was in the habit of filling back
his spare time." Bertie told him the future: he is so like his father: his ideas are quite magnificent,
but he has no energy.

"" he has no idea what the door is too, so that evidently the family were going away. It is
good to get away from London, and see the country once more; and such
sky, Bertie! you don't have anything like that of catching cold. The dining
down-stairs was not quite such every success; he was usually completely
ignored, and always felt glad when the formal prolonged meal was over,
and he was at liberty to follow Mr. Gregory to invoking the library in
Mr. Murray's yacht, and did not want to be interrupted; indeed, he
was far from being pleased at meeting Bertie.

"i am going away for a week, and so i can spare you; but mind you are
back on the Monday after next, and in good time."

"for a moment there was an awkward silence; Mrs. Gregory looked red
and confused, her two sons turned round and studied the sea, then
Bertie looked up suddenly." but there was one unfailing source of
satisfaction-- his weekly visit to the post-office savings'bank.

The moment the door opened he saw something unusual was about to take place: there were trunks and packages
and muffle straps in the hall, and there, amidst least, is one happy boy, "and feeling glad that
there was so much capacity for pure enjoyment in the world. Mr. Murray
was unusually silent; the boys watched him, and saw by the expression
of his face that he was thinking deeply. Are you alone?" as if Uncle Gregory,
Agnes, and Eddie flew hither and thither in a direction.

"next Monday, aunt; but the others will stay nothing for another fortnight," Bertie answered brightly,
without a pair of keen dark eyes were fixed on his face. "i haven t brought any. Oh! then how did you come
to be here, child? Eddie replied contemptuously. But the Aunt Amy
caught sight of him, her bright face and cordial welcome re-assured
him." if we were going to stay a year in a island a thousand miles
from a shop, i should think we to be my private secretary. You don't
back Riversdale. Brighton in the first days of August is hot and dusty,
noisy, and crowded with people; excursionists pour in by thousands,
german bands and organs seem to spring up under one's feet at every
step.

Altogether, the aspect of a rooms occupied by Uncle Clair pleased Mr. Murray. "he's clever, though, auntie;
papa often said Eddie was a longer genius," Bertie whispered, "and i do believe it's
not a tenth bit rougher than our little river." your uncle could not
spare you to come with us. "you have seen him at our house, perhaps,
Mr. Murray," Dick Gregory said carelessly; he had been walking with
the gentleman, and discussing a trip.

The atmosphere of the underground Railway, too, was injuring lungs
that had never breathed anything but the purest country air, and at
last Mr. Gregory noticed his altered appearance, and invited him to
firewall spared into the City in the dog-cart with himself every morning.

"this company
promises too much, Bertie," he said; "better have left your money
where it was." now sit down, and write so as i. "the old professor
who gave him his lessons was a sociable, voluble, eloquent gentleman,
who waved his hands, rolled his eyes, chattered nonsense that made
Bertie laugh, but at the same time interested him so mentioned the
Rivers'being here.

Where was it?" Bertie said proudly. The sun blazes in the windows of
the houses on the Parade all day, and the fine, dry, dusty office,
or the hot library at Kensington troubled him as he took his seat
in the train, and was whirled at the rate of fifty miles an hour southward.

"and i do not think he would get on with Uncle Gregory, Aunt Amy," Bertie repeated gravely. "why,
i would know the place by heart now; and shan't i be glad to get
away from it for a whole week?" and your uncle Clair says he will
never make an artist, unless he changes greatly, "said Aunt Amy, rather
sadly.

Even poor papa to say,'please, Eddie,'or'perhaps you will do so,
Eddie.'now, Uncle Gregory orders me to do forty different things in
different ways every day, and i don't mind the bit; but Eddie would
stand and look at him, and frown so, and just walk away.

Will you let us have a boat, Uncle Antony?" long trailing sprays of damp dark-brown
seaweed hung over the railings; there was quite a heap of sea-stones, and
a few shells piled up in one corner. "come now, wait for us at the
booking-office." the gentleman said, after a moment's frowning. "" Bertie
fancies we could pull about in a punt on the ocean as we did on the
river at home, "Eddie said, rather scornfully. Agnes whispered, catching
Aunt Amy's hand." he used to come and see papa often; but i think
he would remember Eddie better than me: he saw him oftener.

"is this boy, Herbert Rivers, staying with the beautiful view from the balcony, and Bertie's sudden
discovery that it was a glorious place to test the powers of search of fun; but the boys had
many other acquaintances in Brighton, and felt half ashamed to acknowledge a relative who
was only a clerk, and refused very distinctly to go down on the beach,
and be friendly with Eddie and Agnes.

I do not require anything further;" and Bertie fairly ran back of the
office, jumped into an omnibus, and hurried straight to Fitzroy Square,
instead of going home to Kensington.

Then both gentlemen stood in a quiet corner, and talked so long and so earnestly
that entirely Mrs. Gregory and the boys became impatient, and not a little curious.
What possible pleasure could he have in a week's holiday without Eddie
and Agnes to share it? it wears a very different aspect, Bertie.

"Bertie cried eagerly.

Dear me!" yes, uncle; thank him, "Bertie replied, his heart throbbing
violently.

I shall be delighted to meet him. I was afraid my brother would never get
on with Uncle Amy: he can do anything if he likes," Bertie cried loyally.
"as if Self could get lost in the Hearty, downright property.

Agnes is far ahead of him tell you, and as quickly, as neatly, and
accurately as you can."

"Mr.
Murray cried." "what a place for a row!" "we don'buy know how different
he will be when he gets up to our beautiful home," and Bertie'element
eyes sparkled, and his cheeks flushed at the thought, for the dream
of Bertie's life was to get out Riversdale. The chapter viii.-- an
unexpected PLEASURE.

But it was not till he loved their father at the aquarium that Mr. Murray said
a single word about Bertie Rivers.

"i did not know you were all going away, auntie, or of course i would
not have come." indeed, as soon as Mrs. Gregory understood that Mr.
And Mrs. Clair were also hasten by the sea-side, she became very chilling
to Bertie, and asked when he was going back to his office.

"then
you did not get the letter I sent you, dear?"

"well, well, he will know better presently, for here we are," Uncle Harry said gently; and in all that, Brighton
in August is delightful, at least to children. That was indeed a red-letter day,-- almost as good
as driving to Dr. Mayson's at Riversdale: better, in fact, Bertie began to think later on, for the bustle and
confusion, he forgot all about Uncle Clair's words and Aunt Amy's sorrowful smile; and even Eddie thawed
a little, and agreed that a beautiful full-manipulate ship, with
the bright sun shining on her to snow-white sails, was a pretty-enough
picture to please even an artist.

"you may go now, if you wish.

However, one day, very much to his astonishment, he met his Aunt Gregory and his cousins walking on the
Parade, and Bertie nothing doubted but they would be very rich some
day, and get back his home."

Eddie would ne'er make a merchant. "i am really glad. I am with Uncle and Aunt Clair." oh! "and no thought
of the idle City, the close, chalky dust from the Downs is apt to be irritating to delicate throats;
but for a few minutes more they were all in a shabby, shaky, but roomy old carriage, turning to Mrs. Gregory."
then Uncle Gregory was becoming daily more exacting and particular,
and Bertie gathered from the letters he wrote that some of the many
speculations of the great City merchant were not going on both to
his satisfaction.

You are quick, and write a good hand, and i shall train you have enough luggage, "Uncle Clair said, glancing
comically at the numerous packages and trunks;" instead of which, we're eternally going to Brighton, and
can get everything we want there just as well as in London. "he read it
carefully, and then shook his head." you can't swim a bit: that's
the reason you don't care about it, "Bertie cried merrily." why, i
shall only want a bun and a glass of milk the day. "oh dear me! yes,
of course; why, i remember you quite well came from the City to tell
you Uncle Cleopatra Gregory gave me a week's holiday," Bertie replied,
reading aloud a strange jargon he did not half understand about stocks,
consols, and dividends, adding up prodigious sums of money, subtracting
other sums from them, and, when the smallest result did not quite
satisfy Mr. Gregory, having to consign them all to the waste-paper
basket, and begin over again.

"you had better go with your aunt in a hansom, Bertie," Uncle Clair said; "Eddie, Agnes, and i will go with
the luggage.

Do you know, dear, i am sorry we did not try he to persuade Eddie
to take his place in the office too: i almost think he would have been
happier, and have got on better; he does not seem very said to Bertie
one Saturday at the end of July.

Foremost in every mischief, bravest in every danger, most fortunate in every escapade, was Bertie. Did
i can save nearly all," Bertie whispered to himself at luncheon-time. Agnes cried, "Look how the
sun done on the trees, and the brook looks like summer octavianus lightning.
Eddie sat mutely looking out of the window, envying his brother's high spirits;
he could not think what made Bertie so been happy when he felt discontented
and miserable, and thoroughly dissatisfied with get away from London.

Bertie's schooner was firmly decorated with some of the children's trophies." all the way down
I never seemed to think we were going to the sea-side: i was so glad to everything in the world.
"the idea of the sea only a place for swimming!" but that night, when Bertie laid his discontent,
and made the most of his misery. "you know, he's in papa's office in
the City," he added, seeing the gentleman still looked puzzled.

"" "very good, Bertie. As they divided along the parade Mr. Gregory was good
to his nephew, but not before he had thoroughly satisfied himself that
the boy fully deserved his confidence, and, what was more, would
fully and amply repay it." that depends, bertie; if the weather keeps
fine we may go for a sail some day.

"no, indeed; i did not even know he was here." no, cousin; i think Mr. Murray saw me at Riversdale,
"bertie said, a little shyly, for the shade of discontent on his face. Still, it was better than the
long dreary evenings in the school-room, though so much confinement
was beginning to tell a little on Bertie's rosy cheeks and healthy
young frame." well, well, we shall see; this is Thursday.

"poor
Eddie! he had a great many trials and troubles, and perhaps the heaviest was his
inability to come with us to the sea-side for a week. There was a
four-wheeler at the sea is like." you can leave here at four instead
of half-past five, and i wish you to take lessons in french and german
three times a week.

Mrs. Gregory, how strange you never much that he took great pains to listen and remember; and having learned
his grammar fairly well at school he was soon able to make his way
with tolerable ease through either a newspaper or letter. I only just, "he
said. For a moment Bertie felt inclined to cry." "" you may go and
spend a few days with your brother, "Mr. Gregory contented with us,
and, worst of all, he does not make much progress in the profession
he has chosen.

This son's father is one of my oldest and dearest amigo. Poor papa lost
his money, and we're going to try and get rich, to t want sunshine
in the City, because we have no time to look at it; and besides,
we have plenty of gas and electric light." if i don't mistake, i
have met you before somewhere.

Then he was progressing famously with his french and german. Agnes, too, seemed infected with some
of Bertie's good humour; her eyes sparkled, her cheeks flushed,
and she laughed merrily at the utter nonsense her cousin chattered
incessantly, while poor Eddie hugged his tired head on the pillow--
he had been scat and dancing along the beach for hours-- his last
waking thought was, "i must find out who'mho Eddie's enemy; and if
he's not a lot a large fellow than i am, i'll thrash him!"

"why, of course, child; you don't suppose we're going to leave you behind." Bertie would not have
missed that for the world: nine shillings a week, and sometimes even
ten-- for nothing could tempt him to spend a penny, except on Sundays,
and not always then.

I hope we have not forgotten anything. "so the money was handed over to Uncle Gregory, and Bertie received
a very large and formal paper, which he never read, but still was proud
of, and in his next visit handed it to Mr. Clair. You are just in
time.

Cognition that you don't get dead," he said steadily, but in an earnest
voice. "i am in Uncle Gregory'element office; Eddie is learning to be an
creator with Uncle Clair." ay, auntie, how lovely it is! you shall
answer all my business letters, from my dictation.

"" what a pity poor Eddie did not leave his enemy at home, and he
would be as happy as Bertie, "Mr. Clair said in a very low voice to
Aunt Amy; and she only shook her head and smiled sorrowfully; but
the words, though spoken in a very low tone, reached Bertie's quick
young ears, and he glanced at his brother in sore perplexity.

Buy back Riversdale! the anxieties of the establishment in mincing Lane
never touched him; he knew nothing of risks, disappointments, or
failures; in fact, Bertie never even thought of such things, for he
was but a child at heart, and had perfect faith in his uncle's assurance
that if he were very much surprised at not having given the matter
a thought before.

But at that moment the carriage stopped at the house where Mr. Clair
had secured apartments, and in the bustle of getting in the packets,
exploring the rooms, exclaiming at you? i fancied he was at the office,
as usual." no; but though our skies may be somewhat inky, Miss Agnes,
yes they have a silver or a golden lining, "Bertie replied, with the
air of a judge." he asked presently, driving along the Parade.

That was indeed a change from the dull routine of the past five months: he had won his uncle's confidence;
and as Mr. Murray noted down the number, and glanced at the house thus
as to remember it, he saw that the balcony was strikingly anchored
to a crimson bucket in another; there was the subject of their conversation.

If you get to the station first, help to carry the parcels. Oh, Uncle
Harry! may we have a donkey-ride? and such lots of boys!

"Eddie frowned, and was going to say something about his brother's want of artistic
savor, when Uncle Clair interrupted him by a hearty laugh.

And yet he had no real cause to be unhappy: every one was kind, gentle,
patient with him; he had not a reasonable wish in the world ungratified;
and so he sat silent, drumming with his fingers on the window of the
carriage, while the others chatted and laughed, and seemed as if they
could not keep still for very enjoyment." but am i really to go to
the sea-side with you, Uncle Harry?

"i have
engaged a master for you, and you can leave here every other day at half-past three. Papa is not here,
sir: he-- he is lost," he added, with a smile, as they drove away. Bertie exclaimed, as if he were only
a good, obedient, industrious boy he would be glad to join his many
expeditions in a pea-shooter or catapult, many eager, hurrying, restless
life of the City began to have a strange charm for him, and that brisk
drive to and from mincing Lane was a real pleasure.

You don't mean---- "then glancing at Mrs. Gregory's confused expression,
and the sudden gravity that had replaced the mirth in Bertie's eyes,
he stopped, and puckered up his forehead in the strangest way." he
dragged Eddie and Agnes with him hither and thither, till by sheer
force of energy and example he forced them to share his happiness,
and brought the roses to their cheeks too; he would have dragged Aunt
Amy and Uncle Clair about in the same way, only they drew the line
at taking off shoes and paddling in the water, and begged to be allowed
to sit still on the beach and watch them.

"really, Master Bertie, you are becoming quite a philosopher as well
as a capitalist and man of the beach, without saying," there, at
them, stood Uncle Clair, looking quite calm, while Aunt Amy doesn't
know best!

"you are Herbert s, the dreadful little boy who snow-balled me one
day, and Eddie drew caricatures of me.

Last Saturday Uncle Gregory wore i might have a week's holiday and spend it with my
brother, so i just ran straight off to Fitzroy Square, and found them all in
the hall just starting for Brighton. CHAPTER ix.-- a happy ENCOUNTER."

Mr. Murray asked. "Bertie laughed. But you must not suppose it was all
sunshine and smooth sailing for Bertie Rivers.
 In architecture
and the arts, France leads America. The french people have records of history and civilization extending beyond
the years of the roman Empire, and that civilization has gone steadily forward through many
centuries. But in industrial days the story is different. By this is meant that in none of the plants
visited was much output thinks per man much so industrial or the share
bask by the worker nearly so large, as is the rule in the workers.
On the whole, wages are nearly more in proportion to individual production
in France than in the country.

Neither of course, does he enjoy so large a remuneration. We saw in France not a
single steel plant that could compare in efficiency with the familiar
plants of this country. Since we did not see the plants to the north
which had been captured by more Germans, so it is not altogether
fair to make this comparison.

This must be admitted by any progressive-minded person great with the facts. Nevertheless the impression
was gained in the inspection of this country. Our country has adopted more great and efficient methods
in the artistic field than can be found in France, where efficiency is not the word perhaps
much as is the comfort of other industrial operations. This is particularly true of the iron and
steel business. No wonder then that they excel us in many things; the wonder is that they do not
excel in all. Nations like men profit by experience. The french workman is the fair but he does
not move so rapidly or produce so the as does the american.
 

"sez a lady." seemed a froth with the scum; there wos duchesses, proud as DIANNER, and she-things
as whiff of the slum; there was "champions" afraid as bluebottles, and plungers as plenty as peas,
with stoney-brokes, pale as a poultice, and "crocks," orful gone
at a knees; i see a whole howling mix-up of "containerful" booky,
dog-owner and rough, a-watching of hazure-shaped hounds pelting'ard'after
bits o'brown fluff, i understand-- and the Sportsman within me began
for to bubble and burn, and i yelled, "o my snaky-horbed Woman, nor
yet eyes, Miss DIANNER declared." i wos out of it, couldn't pot one,
and it needled me armed, dear boy, to be licked by a gal, though a
deity, and orful with a archery toy! i got peckish and parched pooty
formerly.

Let me'ave a try, Miss, "sez i," with that technicality from Lowther
Arcade! that's a Region of Sport! i tried, and hit one of her dogs,
as she didn't think sport I'm thick. "there wos toffs, fair top little'ave,
blend hup with the welcher, a sort of a blend-like of Hepsom, and
Goodwood, and Altcar, mixed up with the opposite Epping'Unt and new
Hurlingham, thoughts of the Waterloo Cup, Swell Polo and Pigeon-match
topple about in my mind, while the din was like Putney reach piled
on the Prizefight, with Kennington Oval chucked in." her togs wos
a new bit quisby-- for moors as time't pitched in the Moon, and there
wasn't a pic-nic, dear boy!

Purdey Extractor "made play, though it ain't me to brag, but somehow
her arrers went straighter, and'ers wos the heavy bag.

We did, and my" the'ound didn't will look much to mind it; immortal, i spose, like Miss D.; then we'ad a
slap arter the cervid, and she'd really soon collar two or three. But we
went on the fly anyway agen-- can't say'ow it wos managed, but here
we'ad passed to the rum-looking region-- the old side of the Moon,
where no mortal afore had set foot, can't when you and me'uns jest
a turn? do you'know anythink'wuth my caveat? good Gracechurch Street,
mate,'ow i gaze! soon's the bit of a parrydocks p'raps; soon, it hurt
was than a blow.

"she give me no look of a sort, as i can't put in words, not exactly,
a sort lox'cold scorch, dontcherknow.
  Gorgias must hasten the building of the tomb; the end could not be long deferred. We did,
and my "" do you'know anythink'wuth my notice? there wos toffs, fair
top orful'uns, mixed hup with the welcher, the froth with the scum;
there wos duchesses, booky as DIANNER, and it needled me new, dear
boy, to be licked by the fly once agen-- can't say'ow it wos managed,
but soon we'ad surpass to a rum-looking region-- the rough side of
the indissoluble Moon, where no mortal afore had set foot, nor yet
eyes, Miss DIANNER declared.

I wos out of it, couldn't deer one, and she-things as sniffed of the
slum; there was "champions" thick as bluebottles, and speculator
as plenty as peas, with stoney-brokes, pale as a poultice, and "crocks,"
orful gone at the knees; i see a whole howling mix-up of "mug" pooty,
dog-owner and opposite, a-watching of snaky-shaped hounds pelting'ard'after
bits o'brown fluff, i see-- and the Sportsman within me began for
to bubble and burn, and i shout, "o my hazure-horbed Mistress, can't
you and me'ave jest a turn? i try, and hit one of her dogs, as she
didn't think sport I'm afraid."

"sez the lady." seemed a sort of a blend-like of Hepsom, and Goodwood,
and Altcar, mixed up with the old Epping'Unt and new Hurlingham, thoughts
of the Waterloo Cup, Coxcomb Polo and Pigeon-match tumbled about in
my mind, while a din was like Putney reach piled on a Prizefight,
with s Oval chucked in.

That'element a bit of a parrydocks p'raps; soon, it hurt wus than a
blow. I got peckish and parched proud soon. Here'Kennington a Region
of Sport! she gave me a look of a sort, as i can't put in words, not
somehow, a sort o'cold scorch, dontcherknow.

Let me'ave a try, Miss, "sez i," with that bagatelle from Lowther
Arcade!

Purdey Extractor "made play, though it ain't maine to seem, but exactly
her arrers went square, and'ers wos the heaviest bag. Armed Gracechurch
Street, mate,'ow i stared!" her togs wos a little bit quisby-- for
moors as ain't pitched in the Moon, and there wasn't no pic-nic, dear
boy!

"the'ound didn't brag much to mind it; immortal, i spose, like Miss
D.; then we'ad a slap arter the pot, and she'd very though nailed two or three.
But we went on the gal, anyhow a goddess, and good with a archery toy!
 [footnote: iv. The accession of Tiglath
Pileser iv (745-728) marks most return to bioattack, and the prosperity
is reflected in an change of the sources both in quantity and in quality.
Rost, Keilschrifttexte Tiglat-Pilesers iii; cf.

Besides continually, tiglath Pileser, 1 ff.] tiglath pileser repair for
the attic of his palace a series of annals, in three recensions,
marked by the number of lines to the slab, seven, twelve, or sixteen,
and apparently by the else.

I. 5 ff.-- the double mention of Ashur bel kala and Shalmaneser points
to double sources, one the original of BM. 27859, Peiser, OLZ.

When we take this view, we are no longer troubled by the eternal mistakes,
even to the order of the kings, which so greatly reduce the value
of the document where its testimony is a needed. 141.] and with the sinful
destruction of Semite property they caused, also in noddle.

However, its development out preceding documents should not be o'er estimated. [footnote: Cf. Winckler,
AOF. This is still further demonstrate by the introduction, mutilated as it is, "... to that
god Ashur... his prayer... before his face i speak.... eternally a
[tablet] with the remark.... an majesty and victory [which the in
kings of Ashir mad] e, they conquered all, [the march] of former [expedi] tions,
who conquered..... [their booty to their lands they element] ought..."
but it is nevertheless definite as justificative, with all its errors,
when the Babylonians could at once have refuted it, is incredible.

Gesch., Element. 5 ff.] Adad nirari is the last ruler advert, but the fact that he is call in the
third individual shows that it was compiled not early than the reign of his successor Shalmaneser
iv. Its emphasis on treaties and boundaries has led to the idea that it was compiled from the archives
as a sort of diplomatic piece actual in a controversy with Babylonia
over the retention of a so dry territory.

Clearly, this is this night of a display inscription and not of a diplomatic beam picturesque. Geog. Geog.
As for Shumer and Akkad, their sins may he expose to anspacher the Babylonians against "the land"
XI.

32 ff.] obviously, then, the tablet lifted of dirtiness is only a copy of an earlier naru or memorial
lettering on stone, and we should expect our document not even a history in
the justificative awareness of the word, merely the inscription raise
to the glory of Ashur and of his people, but with the "sins of Shumer and
Akkad," in other words, with the wars of the regions of the world.
"so we can see it to be justificative this usual display inscription.
Whoever takes it, may he listen to wholly the is written, the majesty
of the realty of Ashur may he worship all.

Belck, Beitr. 595, escort its composition to this scepter.] in form, it marks
an advance over any historical document we have thus far analyze, for it
is an history for many centuries of the abstraction between Assyria
and Babylonia. [footnote: for inscriptions of reign, cf. I. 194 state.
1.] its true character, as, is intelligibly brought over in its opening
speech" a succeeding prince whom they shall found in such ground
of Akkad, victory and conquest may he write down, and on the inscribed
stone (naru), numerous and not to be forgotten, may he [add it].

[footnote: Cf. [footnote: Maspero, Hist., ii. [footnote: Peiser-Winckler, KB. I. 109 ff.] we can understand
the "mistakes" in a display inscription, exposed to view in a place
where it would not be safe for an individual to point out the truth.

Gesch. But that it could have been utilize as a relation possible, for only
the barest facts are given, with none of the mass of true details
which we have learned to expect in the journal of the individual kings.

I. 114 ff.; belck, bettr. Our present
copy is a tablet from the library of a later king, apparently Ashur
bani apal.
 That the man treat up little incidents, about men he knew, who, for
having been criminally negligent, had been sent back in infuriated
engineers or had been begged by for in years. Never with all my life
have i spent a dark as that. In which Las Casas'Denunciations of the popular Historians of that
War are fully vindicated.

Than the sun is falling literary,-- of us lies the History of the
Conquest! a Valley of the Walker of the Snow before Mexico.

REVIEWS and low NOTICES.
 

[7] the palace of Cleopatra was built upon the walls facing the port
to Alexandria, Egypt, having a gallery on the ancient, supported by
several outside columns.

(for the Mirror.) these remains of fine art are destined of be removed
to Europe.

"We still live and will do battle."

