She cried, weeping like a child, that a pistol-shot had broken her shutters and her window-panes,
and had wounded her; she entreated the Queen to send her into exile, where she would be more
tranquil than in a country where they wished to assassinate her because she was the friend
of her Majesty.

Her hair was in great disorder, and fell to her feet.  It was her chief beauty; and the young
Queen thought that this toilette was less the result of chance than might have been imagined.

"Well, my dear, what has happened?"  she said to her with sang-froid. "You look like a Magdalen,
but in her youth, and before she repented. It is probable that if they wish to harm any one
here it is I; calm yourself."

"No, Madame! save me, protect me! it is Richelieu who pursues me, I am sure!"

The sound of pistols, which was then heard more distinctly, convinced the Queen that the terrors
of Madame de Chevreuse were not vain.

"Come and dress me, Madame de Motteville!" cried she.  But that lady had completely lost her
self-possession, and, opening one of those immense ebony coffers which then answered the purpose
of wardrobes, took from it a casket of the Princess's diamonds to save it, and did not listen
to her.  The other women had seen on a window the reflection of torches, and, imagining that
the palace was on fire, threw jewels, laces, golden vases, and even the china, into sheets
which they intended to lower into the street.  At this moment Madame de Guemenee arrived, a
little more dressed than the Duchesse de Chevreuse, but taking events still more tragically.
Her terror inspired the Queen with a slight degree of fear, because of the ceremonious and
placid character she was known to possess. She entered without curtseying, pale as a spectre,
and said with volubility:

"Madame, it is time to make our confession.  The Louvre is attacked, and all the populace are
arriving from the city, I have been told."

Terror silenced and rendered motionless all the persons present. 

Nothing here said is intended to convey the slightest censure on the conduct of that State.
She no doubt sincerely believed herself to have been injured by the
decision; and States, like individuals, acquiesce with great reluctance
in determinations to their disadvantage.

Those who had an opportunity of seeing the inside of the transactions
which attended the progress of the controversy between this State and
the district of Vermont, can vouch the opposition we experienced, as
well from States not interested as from those which were interested
in the claim; and can attest the danger to which the peace of the
Confederacy might have been exposed, had this State attempted to assert
its rights by force.

Two motives preponderated in that opposition: one, a jealousy entertained of our future power;
and the other, the interest of certain individuals of influence in the neighboring States, who had
obtained grants of lands under the actual government of that district.

Even the States which brought forward claims, in contradiction to ours, seemed more solicitous
to dismember this State, than to establish their own pretensions.

These were New Hampshire, Massachusetts, and Connecticut. New Jersey and Rhode Island, upon
all occasions, discovered a warm zeal for the independence of Vermont;
and Maryland, till alarmed by the appearance of a connection between
Canada and that State, entered deeply into the same views.

These being small States, saw with an unfriendly eye the perspective of our growing greatness.
In a review of these transactions we may trace some of the causes which would be likely to
embroil the States with each other, if it should be their unpropitious
destiny to become disunited.

The competitions of commerce would be another fruitful source of contention. The States less favorably
circumstanced would be desirous of escaping from the disadvantages
of local situation, and of sharing in the advantages of their more
fortunate neighbors.

"I was not in bed, fortunately," replied the young Princesse de Gonzaga, casting down her eyes.
"I saw all these people from the windows. O Madame, Madame, fly!  I implore you to escape by
the secret stairway, and let us remain in your place.  They might take one of us for the Queen."
And she added, with tears, "I have heard cries of death. Fly, Madame!  I have no throne to
lose.  You are the daughter, the wife, and the mother of kings.  Save yourself, and leave us here!"

"You have more to lose than I, 'm'amaie', in beauty, youth, and, I hope, in happiness," said
the Queen, with a gracious smile, giving the Duchess her beautiful hands to kiss.  "Remain
in my alcove and welcome; but we will both remain there.  The only service I accept from you,
my sweet child, is to bring to my bed that little golden casket which my poor Motteville has
left on the ground, and which contains all that I hold most precious."

Then, as she took it, she whispered in Marie's ear:

"Should any misfortune happen to me, swear that you will throw it into the Seine."

"I will obey you, Madame, as my benefactress and my second mother," Marie answered, weeping.

The sound of the conflict redoubled on the quays, and the windows reflected the flash of the
firearms, of which they heard the explosion. The captain of the guards and the captain of the
Swiss sent for orders from the Queen through Dona Stefania.

"I permit them to enter," said the Queen.  "Stand aside, ladies.  I am a man in a moment like
this; and I ought to be so."  Then, raising the bed- curtains, she continued, addressing the
two officers:

"Gentlemen, first remember that you answer with your heads for the life of the princes, my
children.  You know that, Monsieur de Guitaut?"

"I sleep across their doorway, Madame; but this disturbance does not threaten either them or
your Majesty."

"Very well; do not think of me until after them," interrupted the Queen, "and protect indiscriminately
all who are threatened.  You also hear me, Monsieur de Bassompierre; you are a gentleman. 
Forget that your uncle is yet in the Bastille, and do your duty by the grandsons of the dead
King, his friend."

He was a young man, with a frank, open countenance.

"Your Majesty," said he, with a slight German accent, "may see that I have forgotten my family,
and not yours."  And he displayed his left hand despoiled of two fingers, which had just been
cut off.  "I have still another hand," said he, bowing and withdrawing with Guitaut.

The Queen, much moved, rose immediately, and, despite the prayers of the Princesse de Guemenee,
the tears of Marie de Gonzaga, and the cries of Madame de Chevreuse, insisted upon placing
herself at the window, and half opened it, leaning upon the shoulder of the Duchesse de Mantua.

"What do I hear?"  she said.  "They are crying, 'Long live the King! Long live the Queen!'"

The people, imagining they recognized her, redoubled their cries at this moment, and shouted
louder than ever, "Down with the Cardinal!  Long live Monsieur le Grand!"

Marie shuddered.

"What is the matter with you?"  said the Queen, observing her.  But as she did not answer,
and trembled in every limb, this good and gentle Princess appeared not to perceive it; and,
paying the greatest attention to the cries and movements of the populace, she even exaggerated
an inquietude which she had not felt since the first name had reached her ear.  An hour later,
when they came to tell her that the crowd only awaited a sign from her hand to withdraw, she
waved it graciously, and with an air of satisfaction.  But this joy was far from being complete,
for her heart was still troubled by many things, and, above all, by the presentiment of the
regency.  The more she leaned forward to show herself, the more she beheld the revolting scenes
which the increasing light revealed.  Terror took possession of her soul as it became necessary
to appear calm and confiding; and her heart was saddened at the very gayety of her words and
countenance.  Exposed to all eyes, she felt herself a mere woman, and shuddered in looking
at that people whom she would soon perhaps be called upon to govern, and who already took upon
themselves to demand the death of ministers, and to call upon their Queen to appear before them.

She saluted them.

A hundred and fifty years later that salute was repeated by another princess, like herself
of Austrian blood, and Queen of France.  The monarchy without foundation, such as Richelieu
made it, was born and died between these two salutes.

The Princess at last closed her windows, and hastened to dismiss her timid suite.  The thick
curtains fell again over the barred windows; and the room was no longer lighted by a day which
was odious to her.  Large white wax flambeaux burned in candelabra, in the form of golden arms,
which stand out from the framed and flowered tapestries with which the walls were hung.  She
remained alone with Marie de Mantua; and reentering with her the enclosure which was formed
by the royal balustrade, she fell upon her bed, fatigued by her courage and her smiles, and
burst into tears, leaning her head upon her pillow.  Marie, on her knees upon a velvet footstool,
held one of her hands in both hers, and without daring to speak first, leaned her head tremblingly
upon it; for until that moment, tears never had been seen in the Queen's eyes.

They remained thus for some minutes.  The Princess, then raising herself up by a painful effort,
spoke:

"Do not afflict yourself, my child; let me weep.  It is such a relief to one who reigns!  If
you pray to God for me, ask Him to grant me sufficient strength not to hate the enemy who pursues
me everywhere, and who will destroy the royal family of France and the monarchy by his boundless
ambition.  I recognize him in all that has taken place; I see him in this tumultuous revolt."

"What, Madame! is he not at Narbonne?--for it is the Cardinal of whom you speak, no doubt;
and have you not heard that these cries were for you, and against him?" 

Territorial disputes have at all times been found one of the most fertile sources of hostility
among nations. Perhaps the greatest proportion of wars that have desolated the earth have sprung
from this origin. This cause would exist among us in full force. We have a vast tract of unsettled
territory within the boundaries of the United States. There still are discordant and undecided
claims between several of them, and the dissolution of the Union would lay a foundation for
similar claims between them all. It is well known that they have heretofore had serious and
animated discussion concerning the rights to the lands which were ungranted at the time of the
Revolution, and which usually went under the name of crown lands. The States within the limits of
whose colonial governments they were comprised have claimed them as their property, the others have
contended that the rights of the crown in this article devolved upon
the Union; especially as to all that part of the Western territory
which, either by actual possession, or through the submission of the
Indian proprietors, was subjected to the jurisdiction of the king
of Great Britain, till it was relinquished in the treaty of peace.

     This, it has been said, was at all events an acquisition to the Confederacy
     by compact with a foreign power. It has been the prudent policy of
     Congress to appease this controversy, by prevailing upon the States
to make cessions to the United States for the benefit of the whole.

This has been so far accomplished as, under a continuation of the Union, to afford a decided
prospect of an amicable termination of the dispute. A dismemberment of the Confederacy, however,
would revive this dispute, and would create others on the same subject.

At present, a large part of the vacant Western territory is, by cession at least, if not by any
anterior right, the common property of the Union.

If that were at an end, the States which made the cession, on a principle of federal compromise,
would be apt when the motive of the grant had ceased, to reclaim
the lands as a reversion.

The other States would no doubt insist on a proportion, by right
of representation.

Their argument would be, that a grant, once made, could not be revoked; and that the justice of participating
in territory acquired or secured by the joint efforts of the Confederacy, remained undiminished.
If, contrary to probability, it should be admitted by all the States, that each had a right
to a share of this common stock, there would still be a difficulty to be surmounted, as to a
proper rule of apportionment.

Different principles would be set up by different States for this purpose; and as they would
affect the opposite interests of the parties, they might not easily be susceptible of a pacific
adjustment.

In the wide field of Western territory, therefore, we perceive an ample theatre for hostile pretensions,
without any umpire or common judge to interpose between the contending parties. To reason from the past
to the future, we shall have good ground to apprehend, that the sword would sometimes be appealed to
as the arbiter of their differences. The circumstances of the dispute between Connecticut and
Pennsylvania, respecting the land at Wyoming, admonish us not to be sanguine in expecting an easy
accommodation of such differences. The articles of confederation
obliged the parties to submit the matter to the decision of a federal
court. The submission was made, and the court decided in favor of
Pennsylvania.  "Oh, yes; no doubt I am very
wicked!  Your heart is full; you can not bear it, my child.  Come, tell me; how do matters
stand with you and Monsieur de Cinq-Mars?"

At this word grief found a vent, and, still on her knees at the Queen's feet, Marie in her
turn shed upon the bosom of the good Princess a deluge of tears, with childish sobs and so
violent an agitation of her head and her beautiful shoulders that it seemed as if her heart
would break.  The Queen waited a long time for the end of this first emotion, rocking her in
her arms as if to appease her grief, frequently repeating, "My child, my child, do not afflict
yourself thus!"

"Ah, Madame!"  she exclaimed, "I have been guilty toward you; but I did not reckon upon that
heart.  I have done wrong, and I shall perhaps be punished severely for it.  But, alas!  how
shall I venture to confess to you, Madame?  It was not so much to open my heart to you that
was difficult; it was to avow to you that I had need to read there myself."

The Queen reflected a moment, laying her finger upon her lips.  "You are right," she then replied;
"you are quite right.  Marie, it is always the first word which is the most difficult to say;
and that difficulty often destroys us.  But it must be so; and without this rule one would
be often wanting in dignity.  Ah, how difficult it is to reign!  To-day I would descend into
your heart, but I come too late to do you good."

Marie de Mantua hung her head without making any reply.

"Must I encourage you to speak?"  said the Queen.  "Must I remind you that I have almost adopted
you for my eldest daughter?  that after seeking to unite you with the King's brother, I prepared
for you the throne of Poland?  Must I do more, Marie?  Yes, I must, I will.  If afterward you
do not open your whole heart to me, I have misjudged you. Open this golden casket; here is
the key.  Open it fearlessly; do not tremble as I do."

The Duchesse de Mantua obeyed with hesitation, and beheld in this little chased coffer a knife
of rude form, the handle of which was of iron, and the blade very rusty.  It lay upon some
letters carefully folded, upon which was the name of Buckingham.  She would have lifted them;
Anne of Austria stopped her.

"Seek nothing further," she said; "that is all the treasure of the Queen. And it is a treasure;
for it is the blood of a man who lives no longer, but who lived for me.  He was the most beautiful,
the bravest, the most illustrious of the nobles of Europe.  He covered himself with the diamonds
of the English crown to please me.  He raised up a fierce war and armed fleets, which he himself
commanded, that he might have the happiness of once fighting him who was my husband.  He traversed
the seas to gather a flower upon which I had trodden, and ran the risk of death to kiss and
bathe with his tears the foot of this bed in the presence of two of my ladies-in-waiting. 
Shall I say more?  Yes, I will say it to you-- I loved him!  I love him still in the past more
than I could love him in the present.  He never knew it, never divined it.  This face, these
eyes, were marble toward him, while my heart burned and was breaking with grief; but I was
the Queen of France!"  Here Anne of Austria forcibly grasped Marie's arm.  "Dare now to complain,"
she continued, "if you have not yet ventured to speak to me of your love, and dare now to be
silent when I have told you these things!"

"Ah, yes, Madame, I shall dare to confide my grief to you, since you are to me--"

"A friend, a woman!"  interrupted the Queen.  "I was a woman in my terror, which put you in
possession of a secret unknown to the whole world.  I am a woman by a love which survives the
man I loved.  Speak; tell me!  It is now time."

"It is too late, on the contrary," replied Marie, with a forced smile. "Monsieur de Cinq-Mars
and I are united forever."

"Forever!"  exclaimed the Queen.  "Can you mean it?  And your rank, your name, your future--is
all lost?  Do you reserve this despair for your brother, the Duc de Bethel, and all the Gonzagas?"

"For more than four years I have thought of it.  I am resolved; and for ten days we have been
affianced."

"Affianced!"  exclaimed the Queen, clasping her hands.  "You have been deceived, Marie.  Who
would have dared this without the King's order? It is an intrigue which I will know.  I am
sure that you have been misled and deceived."

Marie hesitated a moment, and then said:

"Nothing is more simple, Madame, than our attachment.  I inhabited, you know, the old chateau
of Chaumont, with the Marechale d'Effiat, the mother of Monsieur de Cinq-Mars. WE SHOULD BE READY
TO DENOMINATE INJURIES THOSE THINGS WHICH WERE IN REALITY THE JUSTIFIABLE ACTS OF INDEPENDENT
SOVEREIGNTIES CONSULTING A DISTINCT INTEREST. The spirit of enterprise, which characterizes
the commercial part of America, has left no occasion of displaying itself unimproved. It is
not at all probable that this unbridled spirit would pay much respect to those regulations of trade
by which particular States might endeavor to secure exclusive benefits to their own citizens.
The infractions of these regulations, on one side, the efforts to prevent and repel them, on
the other, would naturally lead to outrages, and these to reprisals
and wars.

The opportunities which some States would have of rendering others tributary to them by commercial
regulations would be impatiently submitted to by the tributary States. The relative situation
of New York, Connecticut, and New Jersey would afford an example of this kind. New York, from
the necessities of revenue, must lay duties on her importations. A great part of these duties
must be paid by the inhabitants of the two other States in the capacity of consumers of what
we import. New York would neither be willing nor able to forego this advantage. Her citizens
would not consent that a duty paid by them should be remitted in favor of the citizens of
her neighbors; nor would it be practicable, if there were not this impediment in the way, to
distinguish the customers in our own markets. Would Connecticut and New
Jersey long submit to be taxed by New York for her exclusive benefit?
Should we be long permitted to remain in the quiet and undisturbed
enjoyment of a metropolis, from the possession of which we derived
an advantage so odious to our neighbors, and, in their opinion, so
oppressive?

Should we be able to preserve it against the incumbent weight of
Connecticut on the one side, and the co-operating pressure of New
Jersey on the other?

These are questions that temerity alone will answer in the affirmative.

The

public debt of the Union would be a further cause of collision between
the separate States or confederacies.

The apportionment, in the first instance, and the progressive extinguishment
afterward, would be alike productive of ill-humor and animosity.

How would it be possible to agree upon a rule of apportionment satisfactory to all? There is
scarcely any that can be proposed which is entirely free from real
objections.

These, as usual, would be exaggerated by the adverse interest of the parties. There are even
dissimilar views among the States as to the general principle of discharging
the public debt.

Some of them, either less impressed with the importance of national credit, or because their
citizens have little, if any, immediate interest in the question,
feel an indifference, if not a repugnance, to the payment of the
domestic debt at any rate.

These would be inclined to magnify the difficulties of a distribution. Others of them, a numerous
body of whose citizens are creditors to the public beyond proportion
of the State in the total amount of the national debt, would be strenuous
for some equitable and effective provision.

The procrastinations of the former would excite the resentments of the latter. The settlement of
a rule would, in the meantime, be postponed by real differences of opinion and affected delays. The citizens
of the States interested would clamour; foreign powers would urge for the satisfaction of their just demands,
and the peace of the States would be hazarded to the double contingency of external invasion and
internal contention.


"He will overthrow him, Madame.  He will do it, if you will assist him. You are the divinity
of France.  Oh, I conjure you, protect the angel against the demon!  It is your cause, that
of your royal family, that of all your nation."

The Queen smiled.

"It is, above all, your cause, my child; and it is as such that I will embrace it to the utmost
extent of my power.  That is not great, as I have told you; but such as it is, I lend it to
you entirely, provided, however, that this angel does not stoop to commit mortal sins," added
she, with a meaning look."  I heard his name pronounced this night by voices most unworthy of him."

"Oh, Madame, I would swear that he knows nothing of it!"

"Ah, my child, do not speak of State affairs.  You are not yet learned enough in them.  Let
me sleep, if I can, before the hour of my toilette. My eyes are burning, and yours also, perhaps."

Saying these words, the amiable Queen laid her head upon the pillow which covered the casket,
and soon Marie saw her fall asleep through sheer fatigue.  She then rose, and, seating herself
in a great, tapestried, square armchair, clasped her hands upon her knees, and began to reflect
upon her painful situation.  Consoled by the aspect of her gentle protectress, she often raised
her eyes to watch her slumber, and sent her in secret all the blessings which love showers
upon those who protect it, sometimes kissing the curls of her blond hair, as if by this kiss
she could convey to her soul all the ideas favorable to the thought ever present to her mind.

The Queen's slumber was prolonged, while Marie thought and wept. However, she remembered that
at ten o'clock she must appear at the royal toilette before all the court.  She resolved to
cast aside reflection, to dry her tears, and she took a thick folio volume placed upon a table
inlaid with enamel and medallions; it was the 'Astree' of M. d'Urfe-- a work 'de belle galanterie'
adored by the fair prudes of the court. The unsophisticated and straightforward mind of Marie
could not enter into these pastoral loves.  She was too simple to understand the 'bergeres
du Lignon', too clever to be pleased at their discourse, and too impassioned to feel their
tenderness.  However, the great popularity of the romance so far influenced her that she sought
to compel herself to take an interest in it; and, accusing herself internally every time that
she felt the ennui which exhaled from the pages of the book, she ran through it with impatience
to find something to please and transport her. An engraving arrested her attention.  It represented
the shepherdess Astree with high-heeled shoes, a corset, and an immense farthingale, standing
on tiptoe to watch floating down the river the tender Celadon, drowning himself in despair
at having, been somewhat coldly received in the morning.  Without explaining to herself the
reason of the taste and accumulated fallacies of this picture, she sought, in turning over
the pages, something which could fix her attention; she saw the word "Druid."

"Ah!  here is a great character," said she.  "I shall no doubt read of one of those mysterious
sacrificers of whom Britain, I am told, still preserves the monuments; but I shall see him
sacrificing men.  That would be a spectacle of horror; however, let us read it."

Saying this, Marie read with repugnance, knitting her brows, and nearly trembling, the following:

     "The Druid Adamas delicately called the shepherds Pimandre,
     Ligdamont, and Clidamant, newly arrived from Calais.  'This
     adventure can not terminate,' said he, 'but by the extremity of
     love.  The soul, when it loves, transforms itself into the object
     beloved; it is to represent this that my agreeable enchantments will
     show you in this fountain the nymph Sylvia, whom you all three love.
     The high-priest Amasis is about to come from Montbrison, and will
     explain to you the delicacy of this idea.  Go, then, gentle
     shepherds!  If your desires are well regulated, they will not cause
     you any torments; and if they are not so, you will be punished by
     swoonings similar to those of Celadon, and the shepherdess Galatea,
     whom the inconstant Hercules abandoned in the mountains of Auvergne,
     and who gave her name to the tender country of the Gauls; or you
     will be stoned by the shepherdesses of Lignon, as was the ferocious
     Amidor.  The great nymph of this cave has made an enchantment.'"

The enchantment of the great nymph was complete on the Princess, who had hardly sufficient
strength to find out with a trembling hand, toward the end of the book, that the Druid Adamas
was an ingenious allegory, representing the Lieutenant-General of Montbrison, of the family
of the Papons.  Her weary eyes closed, and the great book slipped from her lap to the cushion
of velvet upon which her feet were placed, and where the beautiful Astree and the gallant Celadon
reposed luxuriously, less immovable than Marie de Mantua, vanquished by them and by profound
slumber. 

On 15th November 1787, Hamilton written to the people of the State
of New York regarding the unity of the States.

In the middst of the exultation, the question may arise that what
instigation will lead the States to make war each other?

As a matter of fact, this
kind of instigation lead all the nations in the world to great flood
of blood in many occassions.

As far as the United States are concerned, there are difference of opinion
among the States, irrespective of the strict rules of the federal
constitution. It is the time to think and make an evaluation of
the situation in which the restrictions in the constition are dismissed.
  He was
writing upon his knee his notes upon these books of philosophy and politics, which were then
the general subjects of conversation; but at this moment the 'Meditations Metaphysiques' absorbed
all his attention. The philosopher of Touraine enchanted the young counsellor.  Often, in his
enthusiasm, he struck the book, uttering exclamations of admiration; sometimes he took a sphere
placed near him, and, turning it with his fingers, abandoned himself to the most profound reveries
of science; then, led by them to a still greater elevation of mind, he would suddenly throw
himself upon his knees before a crucifix, placed upon the chimney- piece, because at the limits
of the human mind he had found God. Supporting the opinion I expressed previously, Captain Wickham did
not remark any above the entrance of the river. Mr. Clark shared the unique fact that a water-worn piece was
found on a mountain over 25 miles inland from Clarence River. The origin
of this piece is unknown. It is possible that it was carried by a native
or floated there during a time of higher sea levels.

     It was extremely difficult to reach the highest point of the cape,
     which is over 2,000 feet high.


These thoughts entirely occupied the mind of the young counsellor, when a loud noise was heard
under the windows.  He thought that some house on fire excited these prolonged cries, and hastened
to look toward the wing of the building occupied by his mother and sisters; but all appeared
to sleep there, and the chimneys did not even send forth any smoke, to attest that its inhabitants
were even awake.  He blessed Heaven for it; and, running to another window, he saw the people,
whose exploits we have witnessed, hastening toward the narrow streets which led to the quay.

After examining this rabble of women and children, the ridiculous flag which led them, and
the rude disguises of the men: "It is some popular fete or some carnival comedy," said he;
and again returning to the corner of the fire, he placed a large almanac upon the table, and
carefully sought in it what saint was honored that day.  He looked in the column of the month
of December; and, finding at the fourth day of this month the name of Ste.-Barbe, he remembered
that he had seen several small cannons and barrels pass, and, perfectly satisfied with the
explanation which he had given himself, he hastened to drive away the interruption which had
called off his attention, and resumed his quiet studies, rising only to take a book from the
shelves of his library, and, after reading in it a phrase, a line, or only a word, he threw
it from him upon his table or on the floor, covered in this way with books or papers which
he would not trouble himself to return to their places, lest he should break the thread of
his reveries. 

The starving one fought with fury,but he who had the enough was the stronger and the peacefuller:
at last the juvenile drove his sword right through the body of the
elder; but the elder at the same instant bisected his opponent's head
apart, and so the both fell dead together.