It was midsummer. The green, wooded hills that form the southern boundary of the valley seemed
to be painted on shimmering gauze. The grainfields on the lowlands across the river were shining
gold. But the slate-colored dust from the unpaved streets of that section of Millsburgh known
locally as the "Flats" covered the wretched houses, the dilapidated fences, the hovels and
shanties, and everything animate or inanimate with a thick coating of dingy gray powder. Shut
in as it is between a long curving line of cliffs on the south and a row of tall buildings
on the river bank, the place was untouched by the refreshing breeze that stirred the trees
on the hillside above. The hot, dust-filled atmosphere was vibrant with the dull, droning voice
of the Mill. From the forest of tall stacks the smoke went up in slow, twisting columns to
stain the clean blue sky with a heavy cloud of dirty brown.

The deep-toned whistle of the Mill had barely called the workmen from their dinner pails and
baskets when two children came along the road that for some distance follows close to the base
of that high wall of cliffs. By their ragged, nondescript clothing which, to say the least,
was scant enough to afford them comfort and freedom of limb, and by the dirt, that covered
them from the crowns of their bare, unkempt heads to the bottoms of their bare, unwashed feet,
it was easy to identify the children as belonging to that untidy community.

One was a sturdy boy of eight or nine neglected years. On his rather heavy, freckled face and
in his sharp blue eyes there was, already, a look of hardness that is not good to see in the
countenance of a child. The other, his sister, was two years younger--a thin wisp of a girl,
with tiny stooping shoulders, as though, even in her babyhood, she had found a burden too heavy.
With her tired little face and grave, questioning eyes she looked at the world as if she were
wondering, wistfully, why it should bother to be so unkind to such a helpless mite of humanity.

As they came down the worn road, side by side they chose with experienced care those wheel
ruts where the black dust lay thickest and, in solemn earnestness, plowed the hot tracks with
their bare feet, as if their one mission in life were to add the largest possible cloud of
powdered dirt to the already murky atmosphere of the vicinity.

Suddenly they stood still.

For a long, silent moment they gazed at a rickety old wooden stairway that, at this point in
the unbroken line of cliffs, climbs zigzag up the face of the rock-buttressed wall. Then, as
if moved by a common impulse, they faced each other. The quick fire of adventure kindled in
the eyes of the boy as he met the girl's look of understanding.

"Let's go up--stump yer," he said, with a daredevil grin.

"Huh, yer wouldn't dast."

Womanlike, she was hoping that he would "dast" and, with the true instinct of her sex, she
chose unerringly the one way to bring about the realization of her hope.

Her companion met the challenge like a man. With a swaggering show of courage, he went to the
stairway and climbed boldly up--six full steps. Then he paused and looked down, "I don't dast,
don't I?"

From the lower step she spurred his faltering spirit, "Dare yer--dare yer--dare yer."

He came reluctantly down two steps, "Will yer go up if I do?"

She nodded, "Uh-huh--but yer gotter go first."

He looked doubtfully up at the edge of the cliff so far above them. "Shucks," he said, with
conviction, "ain't nobody up there 'cept old Interpreter, an' that dummy, Billy Rand. I know
'cause Skinny Davis an' Chuck Wilson, they told me. They was up--old Interpreter, he can't
do nothin' to nobody--he ain't got no legs."

Gravely she considered with him the possible dangers of the proposed adventure. "Billy Rand
has got legs."

"He can't hear nothin', though--can't talk neither," said the leader of the expedition. "An'
besides maybe he ain't there--we might catch him out. What d'yer say? Will we chance it?"

She looked up doubtfully toward the unknown land above. "I dunno, will we?"

"Skinny an' Chuck, they said the Interpreter give 'em cookies--an' told 'em stories too."

"Cookies, Gee! Go ahead--I'm a-comin'."

That tiny house high on the cliff at the head of the old, zigzag stairway, up which the children
now climbed with many doubtful stops and questioning fears, is a landmark of interest not only
to Millsburgh but to the country people for miles around.

Perched on the perilous brink of that curving wall of rocks, with its low, irregular, patched
and weather-beaten roof, and its rough-boarded and storm-beaten walls half hidden in a tangle
of vines and bushes, the little hut looks, from a distance, as though it might once have been
the strange habitation of some gigantic winged creature of prehistoric ages. The place may
be reached from a seldom-used road that leads along the steep hillside, a quarter of a mile
back from the edge of the precipice, but the principal connecting link between the queer habitation
and the world is that flight of rickety wooden steps.

Taking advantage of an irregularity in the line of cliffs, the upper landing of the stairway
is placed at the side of the hut. In the rear, a small garden is protected from the uncultivated
life of the hillside by a fence of close-set pickets. Across the front of the curious structure,
well out on the projecting point of rocks, and reached only through the interior, a wide, strongly
railed porch overhangs the sheer wall like a balcony.

With fast-beating hearts, the two small adventurers gained the top of the stairway. Cautiously
they looked about--listening, conferring in whispers, ready for instant, headlong retreat.

The tall grasses and flowering weeds on the hillside nodded sleepily in the sunlight. A bird
perched on a near-by bush watched them with bright eyes for a moment, then fearlessly sought
the shade of the vines that screened the side of the hut. Save the distant, droning, moaning
voice of the Mill, there was no sound.

Calling up the last reserves of their courage, the children crept softly along the board walk
that connects the landing of the stairway with the rude dwelling. Once again they paused to
look and listen. Then, timidly, they took the last cautious steps and stood in the open doorway.
With big, wondering eyes they stared into the room.

It was a rather large room, with a low-beamed ceiling of unfinished pine boards and gray, rough-plastered
walls, and wide windows. A green-shaded student lamp with a pile of magazines and papers on
the table caught their curious eyes, and they gazed in awe at the long shelves of books against
the wall. Opposite the entrance where they stood they saw a strongly made workbench. And beneath
this bench and piled in that corner of the room were baskets--dozens of them--of several shapes
and sizes; while brackets and shelves above were filled with the materials of which the baskets
were woven. There was very little furniture. The floors were bare, the windows without hangings.
It was all so different from anything that these children of the Flats had ever seen that they
felt their adventure assuming proportions.

For what seemed a long time, the boy and the girl stood there, hesitating, on the threshold,
expecting something--anything--to happen. Then the lad ventured a bold step or two into the
room. His sister followed timidly.

They were facing hungrily toward an open door that led, evidently, to the kitchen, when a deep
voice from somewhere behind them said, "How do you do?"

Startled nearly out of their small wits, the adventurers whirled to escape, but the voice halted
them with, "Don't go. You came to see me, didn't you?"

The voice, though so deep and strong, was unmistakably kind and gentle--quite the gentlest
voice, in fact, that these children had ever heard.

Hesitatingly, they went again into the room, and now, turning their backs upon the culinary
end of the apartment, they saw, through the doorway opening on to the balcony porch, a man
seated in a wheel chair. In his lap he held a half-finished basket.

For a little while the man regarded them with grave, smiling eyes as though, understanding
their fears, he would give them time to gain courage. Then he said, gently, "Won't you come
out here on the porch and visit with me?"

The boy and the girl exchanged questioning looks.

"Come on," said the man, encouragingly.

Perhaps the sight of that wheel chair recalled to the boy's mind the reports of his friends,
Skinny and Chuck. Perhaps it was something in the man himself that appealed to the unerring
instincts of the child. The doubt and hesitation in the urchin's freckled face suddenly gave
way to a look of reckless daring and he marched forward with the swaggering air of an infant
bravado. Shyly the little girl followed.

Invariably one's first impression of that man in the wheel chair was a thought of the tremendous
physical strength and vitality that must once have been his. But the great trunk, with its
mighty shoulders and massive arms, that in the years past had marked him in the multitude,
was little more than a framework now. His head with its silvery white hair and beard--save
that in his countenance there was a look of more venerable age--reminded one of the sculptor
Rodin. These details of the man's physical appearance held one's thoughts but for a moment.
One look into the calm depths of those dark eyes that were filled with such an indescribable
mingling of pathetic courage, of patient fortitude, and of sorrowful authority, and one so
instantly felt the dominant spiritual and mental personality of this man that all else about
him was forgotten.

Squaring himself before his host, the boy said, aggressively, "I know who yer are. Yer are
the Interpreter. I know 'cause yer ain't got no legs."

"Yes," returned the old basket maker, still smiling, "I am the Interpreter. At least," he continued,
"that is what the people call me." Then, as he regarded the general appearance of the children,
and noted particularly the tired face and pathetic eyes of the little girl, his smile was lost
in a look of brooding sorrow and his deep voice was sad and gentle, as he added, "But some
things I find very hard to interpret."

The girl, with a shy smile, went a little nearer.

The boy, with his eyes fixed upon the covering that in spite of the heat of the day hid the
man in the wheel chair from his waist down, said with the cruel insistency of childhood, "Ain't
yer got no legs--honest, now, ain't yer?"

The Interpreter laughed understandingly. Placing the unfinished basket on a low table that
held his tools and the material for his work within reach of his hand, he threw aside the light
shawl. "See!" he said.

For a moment the children gazed, breathlessly, at those shrunken and twisted limbs that resembled
the limbs of a strong man no more than the empty, flapping sleeves of a scarecrow resemble
the arms of a living human body.

"They are legs all right," said the Interpreter, still smiling, "but they're not much good,
are they? Do you think you could beat me in a race?"

"Gee!" exclaimed the boy.

Two bright tears rolled down the thin, dirty cheeks of the little girl's tired face, and she
turned to look away over the dirty Flats, the smoke-grimed mills, and the golden fields of
grain in the sunshiny valley, to something that she seemed to see in the far distant sky.

With a quick movement the Interpreter again hid his useless limbs.

"And now don't you think you might tell me about yourselves? What is your name, my boy?"

"I'm Bobby Whaley," answered the lad. "She's my sister, Maggie."

"Oh, yes," said the Interpreter. "Your father is Sam Whaley. He works in the Mill."

"Uh-huh, some of the time he works--when there ain't no strikes ner nothin'."

The Interpreter, with his eyes on that dark cloud that hung above the forest of grim stacks,
appeared to attach rather more importance to Bobby's reply than the lad's simple words would
justify.

Then, looking gravely at Sam Whaley's son, he said, "And you will work in the Mill, too, I
suppose, when you grow up?"

"I dunno," returned the boy. "I ain't much stuck on work. An' dad, he says it don't git yer
nothin', nohow."

"I see," mused the Interpreter, and he seemed to see much more than lay on the surface of the
child's characteristic expression.

The little girl was still gazing wistfully at the faraway line of hills.

As if struck by a sudden thought, the Interpreter asked, "Your father is working now, though,
isn't he?"

"Uh-huh, just now he is."

"I suppose then you are not hungry."

At this wee Maggie turned quickly from contemplating the distant horizon to consider the possible
meaning in the man's remark.

For a moment the children looked at each other. Then, as a grin of anticipation spread itself
over his freckled face, the boy exclaimed, "Hungry! Gosh! Mister Interpreter, we're allus hungry!"

For the first time the little girl spoke, in a thin, piping voice, "Skinny an' Chuck, they
said yer give 'em cookies. Didn't they, Bobby?"

"Uh-huh," agreed Bobby, hopefully.

The man in the wheel chair laughed. "If you go into the house and look in the bottom part of
that cupboard near the kitchen door you will find a big jar and--"

But Bobby and Maggie had disappeared.

The children had found the jar in the cupboard and, with their hands and their mouths filled
with cookies, were gazing at each other in unbelieving wonder when the sound of a step on the
bare floor of the kitchen startled them. One look through the open doorway and they fled with
headlong haste back to the porch, where they unhesitatingly sought refuge behind their friend
ha the wheel chair.

The object of their fears appeared a short moment behind them.

"Oh," said the Interpreter, reaching out to draw little Maggie within the protecting circle
of his arm, "it is Billy Rand. You don't need to fear Billy."

The man who stood looking kindly down upon them was fully as tall and heavy as the Interpreter
had been in those years before the accident that condemned him to his chair. But Billy Rand
lacked the commanding presence that had once so distinguished his older friend and guardian.
His age was somewhere between twenty and thirty; but his face was still the face of an overgrown
and rather slow-witted child.

Raising his hands, Billy Rand talked to the Interpreter in the sign language of the deaf and
dumb. The Interpreter replied in the same manner and, with a smiling nod to the children, Billy
returned to the garden in the rear of the house.

Tiny Maggie's eyes were big with wonder.

"Gee!" breathed Bobby. "He sure enough can't talk, can he?"

"No," returned the Interpreter. "Poor Billy has never spoken a word."

"Gee!" said Bobby again. "An' can't he hear nothin,' neither?"

"No, Bobby, he has never heard a sound."

Too awe-stricken even to repeat his favorite exclamation, the boy munched his cooky in silence,
while Maggie, enjoying her share of the old basket maker's hospitality, snuggled a little closer
to the wheel of the big chair.

"Billy Rand, you see," explained the Interpreter, "is my legs."

Bobby laughed. "Funny legs, I'd say."

"Yes," agreed the Interpreter, "but very good legs just the same. Billy runs all sorts of errands
for me--goes to town to sell our baskets and to bring home our groceries, helps about the house
and does many things that I can't do. He is hoeing the garden this afternoon. He comes in every
once in a while to ask if I want anything. He sleeps in a little room next to mine and sometimes
in the night, when I am not resting well, I hear him come to my bedside to see if I am all right."

"An' yer keep him an' take care of him?" asked Bobby.

"Yes," returned the Interpreter, "I take care of Billy and Billy takes care of me. He has fine
legs but not much of a--but cannot speak or hear. I can talk and hear and think but have no
legs. So with my reasonably good head and his very good legs we make a fairly good man, you see."

Bobby laughed aloud and even wee Maggie chuckled at the Interpreter's quaint explanation of
himself and Billy Rand.

"Funny kind of a man," said Bobby.

"Yes," agreed the Interpreter, "but most of us men are funny in one way or another--aren't
we, Maggie?" He looked down into the upturned face of that tiny wisp of humanity at his side.

Maggie smiled gravely in answer.

Very confident now in his superiority over the Interpreter, whose deaf and dumb legs were safely
out of sight in the garden back of the house, Bobby finished the last of his cookies, and began
to explore. Accompanying his investigations with a running fire of questions, he fingered the
unfinished basket and the tools and material on the table, examined the wheel chair, and went
from end to end of the balcony porch. Hanging over the railing, he looked down from every possible
angle upon the rocks, the stairway and the dusty road below. Exhausting, at last, the possibilities
of the immediate vicinity, he turned his inquiring gaze upon the more distant landscape.

"Gee! Yer can see a lot from here, can't yer?"

"Yes," returned the Interpreter, gravely, "you can certainly see a lot. And do you know, Bobby,
it is strange, but what you see depends almost wholly on what you are?"

The boy turned his freckled face toward the Interpreter. "Huh?"

"I mean," explained the Interpreter, "that different people see different things. Some who
come to visit me can see nothing but the Mill over there; some see only the Flats down below;
others see the stores and offices; others look at nothing but the different houses on the hillsides;
still others can see nothing but the farms. It is funny, but that's the way it is with people,
Bobby."

"Aw--what are yer givin' us?" returned Bobby, and, with an unmistakably superior air, he faced
again toward the scene before them. "I can see the whole darned thing--I can."

The Interpreter laughed. "And that," he said, "is exactly what every one says, Bobby. But,
after all, they don't see the whole darned thing--they only think they do."

"Huh," retorted the boy, scornfully, "I guess I can see the Mill, can't I?--over there by the
river--with the smoke a-rollin' out of her chimneys? Listen, I can hear her, too."

Faintly, on a passing breath of air, came the heavy droning, moaning voice of the Mill.

"Yes," agreed the Interpreter, with an odd note in his deep, kindly voice, "I can nearly always
hear it. I was sure you would see the Mill."

"An' look-ee, look-ee," shouted the boy, forgetting, in his quick excitement, to maintain this
superior air, "look-ee, Mag! Come here, quick." With energetic gestures he beckoned his sister
to his side. "Look-ee, right over there by that bunch of dust, see? It's our house--where we
live. That there's Tony's old place on the corner. An' there's the lot where us kids plays
ball. Gee, yer could almost see mom if she'd only come outside to talk to Missus Grafton er
somethin'!"

From his wheel chair the Interpreter watched the children at the porch railing. "Of course
you would see your home," he said, gravely. "The Mill first, and then the place where you live.
Nearly every one sees those things first. Now tell what else you see."

"I see, I see--" The boy hesitated. There was so much to be seen from the Interpreter's balcony
porch.

The little girl's thin voice piped up with shrill eagerness, "Look at the pretty yeller fields
an' the green trees away over there across the river, Bobby. Gee, but wouldn't yer just love
to be over there an'--an'--roll 'round in the grass, an' pick flowers, an' everything?"

"Huh," retorted Bobby. "Look-ee, that there's McIver's factory up the river there. It's 'most
as big as the Mill. An' see all the stores an' barber shops an' things downtown--an' look-ee,
there's the courthouse where the jail is an'--"

Maggie chimed in with, "An' all the steeples of the churches--an' everythin'."

"An' right down there," continued the boy, pointing more toward the east where, at the edge
of the Flats, the ground begins to rise toward the higher slope of the hills, "in that there
bunch of trees is where Pete Martin lives, an' Mary an' Captain Charlie. Look-ee, Mag, yer
can see the little white house a-showin' through the green leaves."

"You know the Martins, do you?" asked the Interpreter.

"You bet we do," returned Bobby, without taking his gaze from the scene before him, while Maggie
confirmed her brother's words by turning to look shyly at her new-found friend. "Pete and Charlie
they work in the Mill. Charlie he was a captain in the war. He's one of the head guys in our
union now. Mary she used to give us stuff to eat when dad was a-strikin' the last time."

"An' look-ee," continued the boy, "right there next to the Martins' yer can see the old house
where Adam Ward used to live before the Mill made him rich an' he moved to his big place up
on the hill. I know 'cause I heard dad an' another man talkin' 'bout it onct. Ain't nobody
lives in the old house now. She's all tumbled down with windows broke an' everything. I wonder--"
He paused to search the hillside to the east. "Yep," he shouted, pointing, "there she is--there's
the castle--there's where old Adam an' his folks lives now. Some place to live I'd say. Gee,
but wouldn't I like to put a chunk o' danermite er somethin' under there! I'd blow the whole
darned thing into nothin' at all an that old devil Adam with it. I'd--"

Little Maggie caught her warlike brother's arm. "But, Bobby--Bobby, yer wouldn't dast to do
that, yer know yer wouldn't!"

"Huh," returned the boy, scornfully. "I'd show yer if I had a chanct."

"But, Bobby, yer'd maybe kill the beautiful princess lady if yer was to blow up the castle
an' every-thin'."

"Aw shucks," returned the boy, shaking off his sister's hand with manly impatience. "Couldn't
I wait 'til she was away somewheres else 'fore I touched it off? An', anyway, what if yer wonderful
princess lady was to git hurt, I guess she's one of 'em, ain't she?"

Poor Maggie, almost in tears, was considering this doubtful reassurance when Bobby suddenly
pointed again toward that pretentious estate on the hillside, and cried in quick excitement:
"Look-ee, Mag, there's a autermobile a-comin' out from the castle, right now--see? She's a-goin'
down the hill toward town. Who'll yer bet it is? Old Adam Ward his-self, heh?"

Little Maggie's face brightened joyously. "Maybe it's the princess lady, Bobby."

"And who is this that you call the princess lady, Maggie?" asked the Interpreter.

Bobby answered for his sister. "Aw, she means old Adam's daughter. She's allus a-callin' her
that an' a-makin' up stories about her."

"Oh, so you know Miss Helen Ward, too, do you?" The Interpreter was surprised.

The boy turned his back on the landscape as though it held nothing more of interest to him.
"Naw, we've just seen her, that's all."

Stealing timidly back to the side of the wheel chair, the little girl looked wistfully up into
the Interpreter's face. "Do yer--do yer know the princess lady what lives in the castle?" she
asked.

The old basket maker, smiling down at her, answered, "Yes, dear, I have known your princess
lady ever since she was a tiny baby--much smaller than you. And did you know, Maggie, that
she was born in the old house down there, next door to Charlie and Mary Martin?"

"An'--an' did she live there when she was--when she was as big as me?"

Bobby interrupted with an important "Huh, I know her brother John is a boss in the Mill. He
was in the war, too, with Captain Charlie. Did he live in the old house when he was a kid?"

"Yes."

"An'--an' when the princess lady was little like me, an' lived in the old house, did yer play
with her?" asked Maggie.

The Interpreter laughed softly. "Yes, indeed, often. You see I worked in the Mill, too, in
those days, Maggie, with her father and Peter Martin and--"

"That was when yer had yer real, sure-nuff legs, wasn't it?" the boy interrupted.

"Yes, Bobby. And every Sunday, almost, I used to be at the old house where the little princess
lady lived, or at the Martin home next door, and Helen and John and Charlie and Mary and I
would always have such good times together."

Little Maggie's face shone with appreciative interest. "An' did yer tell them fairy stories
sometimes?"

"Sometimes."

The little girl sighed and tried to get still closer to the man in the wheel chair. "I like
fairies, don't yer?"

"Indeed, I do," he answered heartily.

"Skinny and Chuck, they said yer tol' them stories, too."

The Interpreter laughed quietly. "I expect perhaps I did."

"I don't suppose yer know any fairy stories right now, do yer?"

"Let me see," said the Interpreter, seeming to think very hard. "Why, yes, I believe I do know
one. It starts out like this: Once upon a time there was a most beautiful princess, just like
your princess lady, who lived in a most wonderful palace. Isn't that the way for a fairy story
to begin?"

"Uh-huh, that's the way. An' then what happened?"

With a great show of indifference the boy drew near and stretched himself on the floor on the
other side of the old basket maker's chair.

"Well, this beautiful princess in the story, perhaps because she was so beautiful herself,
loved more than anything else in all the world to have lots and lots of jewels. You know what
jewels are, don't you?"

"Uh-huh, the princess lady she has 'em--heaps of 'em. I seen her onct close, when she was a-gettin'
into her autermobile, in front of one of them big stores."

"Well," continued the story-teller, "it was strange, but with all her diamonds and pearls and
rubies and things there was one jewel that the princess did not have. And, of course, she wanted
that one particular gem more than all the others. That is the way it almost always is, you know."

"Huh," grunted Bobby.

"What was that there jewel she wanted?" asked Maggie.

"It was called the jewel of happiness," answered the Interpreter, "because whoever possessed
it was sure to be always as happy as happy could be. And so, you see, because she did not have
that particular jewel the princess did not have as good times as such a beautiful princess,
living in such a wonderful palace, with so many lovely things, really ought to have.

"But because this princess' heart was kind, a fairy appeared to her one night, and told her
that if she would go down to the shore of the great sea that was not far from the castle, and
look carefully among the rocks and in the sand and dirt, she would find the jewel of happiness.
Then the fairy disappeared--poof! just like that."

Little Maggie squirmed with thrills of delight. "Some story, I'd say. An' then what happened?"

"Why, of course, the very next day the princess went to walk on the seashore, just as the fairy
had told her. And, sure enough, among the rocks and in the sand and dirt, she found hundreds
and hundreds of bright, shiny jewels. And she picked them up, and picked them up, and picked
them up, until she just couldn't carry another one. Then she began to throw away the smaller
ones that she had picked up at first, and to hunt for larger ones to take instead. And then,
all at once, right there beside her, was a poor, ragged and crooked old woman, and the old
woman was picking up the ugly, dirt-colored pebbles that the princess would not touch.

"'What are you doing, mother?' asked the beautiful princess, whose heart was kind.

"And the crooked old woman answered, 'I am gathering jewels of happiness on the shore of the
sea of life.'

"'But those ugly, dirty pebbles are not jewels, mother,' said the lady. 'See, these are the
jewels of happiness.' And she showed the poor, ignorant old woman the bright, shiny stones
that she had gathered.

"And the crooked old crone looked at the princess and laughed--a curious, creepy, crawly, crooked
laugh.

"Then the old woman offered to the princess one of the ugly, dirt-colored pebbles that she
had gathered. 'Take this, my dear,' she croaked, 'and wear it, and you shall see that I am
right--that this is the jewel of happiness.'

"Now the beautiful princess did not want to wear that ugly, dirt-colored stone--no princess
would, you know. But, nevertheless, because her heart was kind and she saw that the poor, crooked
old woman would feel very bad if her gift was not accepted, she took the dull, common pebble
and put it with the bright, shiny jewels that she had gathered.

"And that very night the fairy appeared to the princess again.

"'Did you do as I told you?' the fairy asked. 'Did you look for the jewel of happiness on the
shore of the sea of life?'

"'Oh, yes,' cried the princess. 'And see what a world of lovely ones I found!'

"The fairy looked at all the pretty, shiny stones that the princess had gathered. 'And what
is this?' the fairy asked, pointing to the ugly, dirt-colored pebble.

"'Oh, that,' replied the princess, hanging her head in embarrassment,--'that is nothing but
a worthless pebble. A poor old woman gave it to me to wear because she thinks it is beautiful.'

"'But you will not wear the ugly thing, will you?' asked the fairy. 'Think how every one would
point at you, and laugh, and call you strange and foolish.'

"'I know,' answered the princess, sadly, 'but I must wear it because I promised, and because
if I did not and the poor old lady should see me without it, she would be so very, very unhappy.'

"And, would you believe it, no sooner had the beautiful princess said those words than the
fairy disappeared--poof! just like that! And right there, on the identical spot where she had
been, was that old ragged and crooked woman.

"'Oh!' cried the princess.

"And the old woman laughed her curious, creepy, crawly, crooked laugh. 'Don't be afraid, my
dear,' she said, 'you shall have your jewel of happiness. But look!' She pointed a long, skinny,
crooked finger at the shiny jewels on the table and there, right before the princess' eyes,
they were all at once nothing but lumps of worthless dirt.

"'Oh!' screamed the princess again. 'All my lovely jewels of happiness!'

"'But look,' said the old woman again, and once more pointed with her skinny finger. And would
you believe it, the princess saw that ugly, dirt-colored pebble turn into the most wonderfully
splendid jewel that ever was--the true jewel of happiness.

"And so," concluded the Interpreter, "the beautiful princess whose heart was kind lived happy
ever after."

Little Maggie clapped her thin hands with delight.

"Gee," said Bobby, "wish I knowed where that there place was. I'd get me enough of them there
jewel things to swap for a autermobile an' a--an' a flyin' machine."

"If you keep your eyes open, Bobby," answered the old basket maker, "you will find the place
all right. Only," he added, looking away toward the big house on the hill, "you must be very
careful not to make the mistake that the princess lady is making--I mean," he corrected himself
with a smile, "you must be careful not to pick up only the bright and shiny pebbles as the
princess in the story did."

