Transcriber's Note:                                          |
  |                                                              |
  | I. Inconsistent punctuation and capitalisation has been      |
  | silently corrected throughout the book.                      |
  |                                                              |
  | II. Clear spelling mistakes have been corrected however,     |
  | inconsistent language usage (such as 'day' and 'dey') has    |
  | been maintained. Inconsistent spelling of place names and    |
  | personal names has also been retained. A list of corrections |
  | is included at the end of the book.                          |
  |                                                              |
  | III. Handwritten corrections have been incorporated within   |
  | the text. Exceptions are notes which were just question      |
  | marks or were followed by question marks: these have been    |
  | explicitly included as 'Handwritten Notes'.                  |
  |                                                              |
  | IV. The numbers at the start of each interview were stamped  |
  | into the original work and refer to the number of the        |
  | published interview in the context of the entire Slave       |
  | Narratives project. He does not
     know the name of his first master. Frank Sparks brought Willis to
     Bosqueville, Texas, when he was two years old. The gun-boats in the
     Bay of Gibraltar, where calms are frequent, had sometimes in the course
     of the former war been able to do considerable damage to the English
vessels of war, when they could not use their sails.

Such small craft, therefore, were supposed the proper force for covering the intended descent. They
were built in different harbours, and brought together by crawling
along the French shore, and keeping under the protection of the batteries,
which were now established on every cape, almost as if the sea-coast
of the channel on the French side had been the lines of a besieged
city, no one point of which could with prudence be left undefended
by cannon.

Boulogne was pitched upon as the centre port, from which the expedition was to sail. By incredible
exertions, Bonaparte had rendered its harbour and roads capable of
containing two thousand vessels of various descriptions.

The smaller sea-ports of Vimereux, Ambleteuse, and Etaples, Dieppe, Havre,
St. Valeri, Caen, Gravelines, and Dunkirk, were likewise filled with
shipping.

Flushing and Ostend were occupied by a separate flotilla. Brest, Toulon, and Rochefort, were each
the station of as strong a naval squadron as France, had still the
means to send to sea.

A land army was assembled of the most formidable description, whether
we regard the high military character of the troops, the extent
and perfection of their appointments, or their numerical strength.
The coast, from the mouth of the Seine to the Texel, was covered
with forces; and Soult, Ney, Davoust, and Victor, names that were
then the pride and the dread of war, were appointed to command the
army of England, (for that menacing title was once more, assumed,) and
execute those manoeuvres, planned and superintended by Bonaparte,
the issue of which was to be the blotting out of Britain from the
rank of independent nations.

Far from being alarmed at this formidable demonstration of force, England
prepared for her resistance with an energy becoming her ancient rank
in Europe, and far surpassing in its efforts any extent of military
preparation before heard of in her history.

To nearly one hundred thousand troops of the line, were added eighty thousand
and upwards of militia, which scarce yielded to the regulars in point
of discipline. The volunteer force, by which every citizen was permitted
and invited to add his efforts to the defence of the country, was far
more numerous than during the last war, was better officered also,
and rendered every way more effective.

It was computed to amount to three hundred and fifty thousand men,
who, if we regard the shortness of the time and the nature of the
service, had attained considerable practice in the use and management
of their arms. Other classes of men were embodied, and destined to
act as pioneers, drivers of wagons, and in the like services. On a sudden,
the land seemed converted to an immense camp, the whole nation into
soldiers, and the good old king himself into a general-in-chief.

All peaceful considerations appeared for a time to be thrown aside; and the voice, calling the nation
to defend their dearest rights, sounded not only in Parliament, and
in meetings convoked to second the measures of defence, but was heard
in the places of public amusement, and mingled even with the voice
of devotion--not unbecoming surely, since to defend our country is
to defend our religion.

Beacons were erected in conspicuous points, corresponding with each
other, all around and all through the island; and morning and evening,
one might have said, every eye was turned towards them to watch for
the fatal and momentous signal.

Partial alarms were given to different places, from the mistakes to which such arrangements must
necessarily be liable; and the ready spirit which animated every species
of troops where such signals called to arms, was of the most satisfactory
description, and afforded the most perfect assurance, that the heart
of every man was in the cause of his country.

Amidst her preparations by land, England did not neglect or relax her precautions on the element
she calls her own. She covered the ocean with five hundred and seventy ships of war of various
descriptions. Divisions of her fleet blocked up every French port
in the channel; and the army destined to invade our shores, might
see the British flag flying in every direction on the horizon, waiting
for their issuing from the harbour, as birds of prey may be seen floating
in the air above the animal which they design to pounce upon.

Sometimes the British frigates and sloops of war stood in, and cannonaded
or threw shells into Havre, Dieppe, Granville, and Boulogne itself.
Sometimes the seamen and marines landed, cut out vessels, destroyed
signal posts, and dismantled batteries.

Such events were trifling, and it was to be regretted that they cost the
lives of gallant men; but although they produced no direct results of
consequence, yet they had their use in encouraging the spirits of
our sailors, and damping the confidence of the enemy, who must at
length have looked forward with more doubt than hope to the invasion
of the English coast, when the utmost vigilance could not prevent
their experiencing insults upon their own.

  
  
  
  During this period of menaced attack and arranged defence,
  Bonaparte visited Boulogne, and seemed active in preparing his soldiers
for the grand effort.

He reviewed them in an unusual manner, teaching them to execute several manoeuvres by night;
and experiments were also made upon the best mode of arranging the soldiers in the flat-bottomed
boats, and of embarking and disembarking them with celerity. Omens
were resorted to for keeping up the enthusiasm which the presence
of the First Consul naturally inspired.

A Roman battle-axe was said to be found when they removed the earth to pitch Bonaparte's tent
or barrack; and medals of William the Conqueror were produced, as having been dug up upon the same
honoured spot. These were pleasant bodings, yet perhaps did not altogether, in the minds of the soldiers,
counterbalance the sense of insecurity impressed on them by the prospect
of being packed together in these miserable chaloupes, and exposed
to the fire of an enemy so superior at sea, that during the chief
consul's review of the fortifications, their frigates stood in shore
with composure, and fired at him and his suite as at a mark.

The men who had braved the perils of the Alps and of the Egyptian deserts, might yet be allowed to
feel alarm at a species of danger which seemed so inevitable, and which they had no adequate means of
repelling by force of arms.

A circumstance which seemed to render the expedition in a great measure
hopeless, was the ease with which the English could maintain a constant
watch upon their operations within the port of Boulogne.

The least appearance of stir or preparation, to embark troops, or get ready for sea, was promptly
sent by signal to the English coast, and the numerous British cruisers were instantly on the alert to
attend their motions. Nelson had, in fact, during the last war, declared
the sailing of a hostile armament from Boulogne to be a most forlorn
undertaking, on account of cross tides and other disadvantages, together
with the certainty of the flotilla being lost if there were the least
wind west-north-west. "As for rowing," he adds, "that is impossible.--It
is perfectly right to be prepared for a mad government," continued
this incontestable judge of maritime possibilities; "but with the active
force which has been given me, I may pronounce it almost impracticable."

Before

quitting the subject, we may notice, that Bonaparte seems not to have
entertained the least doubts of success, could he have succeeded in disembarking
his army.

A single general action was to decide the fate of England. Five days were to bring Napoleon to London,
where he was to perform the part of William the Third; but with more generosity and disinterestedness. He
was to call a meeting of the inhabitants, restore them what he calls their rights, and destroy
the oligarchical faction. A few months would not, according to his account, have elapsed, ere the two nations,
late such determined enemies, would have been identified by their principles, their maxims,
their interests. The full explanation of this gibberish, (for it can be
termed no better, even proceeding from the lips of Napoleon,) is to be found
elsewhere, when he spoke a language more genuine than that of the
Moniteur and the bulletins.

"England," he said, "must have ended, by becoming an appendage to the France of my system. Nature
has made it one of our islands, as well as Oleron and Corsica."

It is impossible not to pursue the train of reflections which Bonaparte
continued to pour forth to the companion of his exile, on the rock
of Saint Helena.

When
England was conquered, and identified with France in maxims and principles, according to one form of
expression, or rendered an appendage and dependency, according to
another phrase, the reader may suppose that Bonaparte would have considered
his mission as accomplished. Alas! it was not much more than commenced.
"I would have departed from thence [from subjugated Britain] to carry
the work of European regeneration [that is, the extention of his
own arbitrary authority] from south to north, under the Republican
colours, for I was then Chief Consul, in the same manner which I was
more lately on the point of achieving it under the monarchical forms."

     
     
     When we find such ideas retaining hold of Napoleon's imagination, and
     arising to his tongue after his irretrievable fall, it is impossible to avoid
     exclaiming, Did ambition ever conceive so wild a dream, and had so
     wild a vision ever a termination so disastrous and humiliating!
     
     It may be expected that something should be here said, upon the chances
     which Britain would have had of defending herself successfully against the army of invaders.
     We are willing to acknowledge that the risk must have been dreadful;
     and that Bonaparte, with his genius and his army, must have inflicted severe
calamities upon a country which had so long enjoyed the blessings
of peace.

But the people were unanimous in their purpose of defence, and their forces
composed of materials to which Bonaparte did more justice when he came
to be better acquainted with them. Of the three British nations, the English
have since shown themselves possessed of the same steady valour which
won the fields of Cressy and Agincourt, Blenheim and Minden--the
Irish have not lost the fiery enthusiasm which has distinguished
them in all the countries of Europe--nor have the Scots degenerated
from the stubborn courage with which their ancestors for two thousand
years maintained their independence against a superior enemy.

Even if London had been lost, we would not, under so great a calamity, have despaired of the freedom
of the country; for the war would in all probability have assumed that popular and national character
which sooner or later wears out an invading army. Neither does the confidence with which Bonaparte
affirms the conviction of his winning the first battle, appear go certainly well founded. This, at least,
we know, that the resolution of the country was fully bent up to the hazard;
and those who remember the period will bear us witness, that the desire
that the French would make the attempt, was a general feeling through
all classes, because they had every reason to hope that the issue
might be such as for ever to silence the threat of invasion.

The next most important occurrence that claims our notice in this volume,
and which fully delineates the nature and character of this wonderful
and ambitious individual, is the account of his declaration as Emperor
of France, and his subsequent Coronation.

CORONATION OF NAPOLEON.

Measures were taken, as on former occasions, to preserve appearances,
by obtaining, in show at least, the opinion of the people, on this
radical change of their system. Government, however, were already confident
of their approbation, which, indeed, had never been refused to any
of the various constitutions, however inconsistent, that had succeeded
each other with such rapidity.

Secure on this point, Bonaparte's accession to the empire was proclaimed with the greatest pomp, without
waiting to inquire whether the people approved of his promotion or otherwise. The proclamation was coldly
received, even by the populace, and excited little enthusiasm.

It seemed, according to some writers, as if the shades of D'Enghien
and Pichegru had been present invisibly, and spread a damp over the
ceremony.

The Emperor was recognised by the soldiery with more warmth. He visited
the encampments at Boulogne, with the intention, apparently, of receiving
such an acknowledgment from the troops as was paid by the ancient
Franks to their monarchs, when they elevated them on their bucklers.

Seated on an iron chair, said to have belonged to king Dagobert, he took his place between two
immense camps, and having before him the Channel and the hostile coasts
of England.

The weather, we have been assured, had been tempestuous, but no sooner had
the Emperor assumed his seat, to receive the homage of his shouting host,
than the sky cleared, and the wind dropt, retaining just breath sufficient
gently to wave the banners.

Even the elements seemed to acknowledge the imperial dignity, all save
the sea, which rolled as carelessly to the feet of Napoleon as it
had formerly done towards those of Canute the Dane.

The Emperor, accompanied with his Empress, who bore her honours both
gracefully and meekly, visited Aix-la-Chapelle, and the frontiers
of Germany.

They received the congratulations of all the powers of Europe, excepting England, Russia, and Sweden,
upon their new exaltation; and the German princes, who had everything to hope and fear from so powerful
a neighbour, hastened to pay their compliments to Napoleon in person,
which more distant sovereigns offered by their ambassadors. They came into the city without clothes
or money and no idea of how to secure employment. A large number were placed on farms, some
given employment as domestics and still others mustered into the Federal Army.

"The city was one procession of men in blue and the air was full of martial music. The fife
and drum could be heard almost all the time, so you may imagine what emotions a colored person
of my age would experience, especially as father's church was a center for congregating the
Negroes and advising them. That was a difficult task, because a large majority were illiterate
and ignorant.

"The year father was called to Charleston, South Carolina, to take charge of a church, we became
the center of considerable trouble. [Footnote 176: Major Albrecht fought his guns with great determination;
his infantry escort, according to Boer accounts, retreated when they saw the advance of the British,
and his ammunition was almost exhausted, but his gunners stood their
ground.]

[Sidenote: Pole-Carew is obliged to fall back to Rosmead.]

[Sidenote: Nov. 28th/99.]

[Sidenote: Lord Methuen being wounded command devolves on Colvile.]

Captain
Forestier-Walker, who was now in action with the section of the 18th
battery near the farm which had been carried earlier in the day by
the King's Own Yorkshire Light Infantry, vigorously shelled the trees
and brushwood in front of our men as they advanced, but his efforts
were much hampered by the fact that the undergrowth was so thick that
it was impossible to see exactly how far forward they were.

All attempts to establish communication by signal, between the officer
commanding the 9th brigade and the troops on the south side of the
river, failed.

The attack broke down from want of strength to drive it home, and
the baffled troops sullenly fell back to Rosmead.

They were so closely pressed by the enemy's musketry
that, in order to cover the retreat, two officers, Major H. F. Coleridge,
North Lancashire, and Captain T. Irvine, Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders,
each with ten or eleven men of different battalions, threw themselves
into farmhouses, which they stubbornly defended until, many hours
later, after their detachments had suffered severe loss, they were
ordered to evacuate their posts.

On his return to the village Major-General Pole-Carew
found that the British strength on the north bank had been increased
by the arrival of 300 officers and men of the Royal engineers, and of
part of a company of the 2nd battalion of the Coldstream Guards.
After writing to Lord Methuen to report his failure to force his way
up the right bank, and to ask for co-operation in the fresh attempt
for which he was then rallying his troops, Pole-Carew heard a rumour
that Lord Methuen had been wounded, and that Major-General Colvile
was now in command of the division.

The rumour was true. Lord Methuen had been wounded at about 4 p.m. near the centre of the line, and
one of his staff officers, Colonel H. P. Northcott, had previously fallen mortally wounded, while
conveying orders for the reinforcement of the troops on the north
bank.

Not long after this news came in, the officer commanding the two guns
of the 18th battery, still in action near the farm to the south of Rosmead,
reported that he heard through the officer commanding the artillery
that Major-General Colvile had issued orders for a vigorous bombardment of the
position by the artillery till dusk, when the Guards were to attack
the left of the Boer line with the bayonet. Pole-Carew then considered
whether, in view of the projected movement of the Guards' brigade,
his local attack was still feasible.

He decided that, owing to the configuration of the ground over which
both bodies of troops would have to move in the darkness, the danger was
so great lest his detachment should enfilade the Guards as to prohibit an
advance from Rosmead.

All, therefore, that could be done was to secure firmly that village.

[Sidenote: 62nd battery with four guns arrives after forced march.]

While the little column had been striving in vain to force its way up the
right bank of the river, the situation on the left bank had remained
unchanged.

The infantry lay prone on the ground, engaged in a desultory fire-fight with an unseen enemy, while the artillery
continued to shell the buildings and the river-banks near the railway bridge. During the course of the afternoon
Colonel Hall, commanding the artillery, had received a welcome reinforcement
of four guns of the 62nd battery, under Major E. J. Granet. The 62nd,
which had been left to guard the Orange River bridge, received orders late
on the 26th to leave two guns at that camp, and proceed with all speed to
rejoin Lord Methuen's division. Owing to a deficiency in rolling stock, no railway
transport was available, and it became necessary for the battery to
march the whole way. Starting at 10 a.m. on the 27th, Major Granet reached
Belmont, thirty miles distant, at dusk.

He halted there till 6 a.m. on the 28th, when, escorted by twenty-five of
the Royal Munster Fusiliers mounted infantry, he marched to Honey Nest
Kloof, where he decided to water and feed his horses.

He had but just halted, when a message reached him that there was fighting on the Riet river and that guns
and ammunition were urgently required there. He started immediately, and
despite the heavy ground over which he had to pass, reached the
battlefield a little after 2 p.m. In twenty-eight hours the 62nd battery
had covered sixty-two miles, at the expense of six horses which fell
dead in the traces, and of about forty more, which never recovered
from the fatigue of this forced march.

The battery was first sent to the left to support the advance up
the north bank of the river, but before it had opened fire, Colonel
Hall ordered Major Granet more to the eastward, as he was afraid that
the shells might fall among the detachment during its progress through
the trees and brushwood which concealed its movements.

At 2.45 p.m., the 62nd came into action 1,200 yards from the south
bank, behind a swell in the ground which covered the gunners from
the waist downwards.

Its fire, aimed first at the north bank, was distributed laterally, and
then for depth, with good results, as the enemy's musketry slackened, and
numbers of men were seen stealing away.

About 5 p.m., to support the projected attack by the Guards, the battery
was moved close to a sandpit on the west of the railway, where it was joined
by the section of the 18th from the left of the line.

[Sidenote: Colvile breaks off the fight.]

After considerable delay, caused by the difficulty of sending messages across
the shot-swept plain, Major-General Colvile was informed that Lord
Methuen had been wounded, and that the command of the division had
devolved upon him. He handed over the Guards' brigade to Colonel Paget,
Scots Guards, with orders to collect his battalions for the attack
upon the left of the Boer line, but soon afterwards decided that it
was too late to risk the passage of the river at night with troops
exhausted by hunger, thirst, and the burning heat of an exceptionally
hot day.

He therefore
resolved to break off the fight till daybreak next morning, and directed
Colonel Paget to form up his brigade for the night at the southern
reservoir.

[Sidenote: Pole-Carew holds Rosmead, and concentrates 9th brigade
on north bank.]

[Sidenote: Boers abandon position. Night, Nov. 28-29.]

As soon as Major-General Pole-Carew reluctantly abandoned the idea of renewing
his attack along the north bank of the Riet, he posted his troops for the defence
of Rosmead. He realised the risks which he ran in holding so isolated a position
throughout the night, but he and his staff considered that the importance
of maintaining the lodgment, which had been effected on the enemy's
side of the Riet, made it worth while to incur the danger.

To the Royal engineers, under Major G. F. Leverson, was allotted
the western face of the village; the Yorkshire Light Infantry held the
north, and the Loyal North Lancashire the north-east; the Argyll and Sutherland guarded
the east. The men lined the walls, banks, and houses at a yard and a half apart,
in groups of six, of whom five rested while one stood sentry.

In the centre of the village was the reserve, two companies of the
Northumberland Fusiliers, and a company of the 2nd battalion Coldstream
Guards. The remainder of the 9th brigade was ordered to cross the river.
To guide them, two fires were lit at the drift; and by daybreak the
whole command was concentrated on the north bank.

It was reinforced by the 1st Highland Light Infantry, who had arrived
during the night by rail from Orange River. In the grey of the morning, while
the Guards were preparing to support the 9th brigade, the guns[177] re-opened
fire upon Modder River village, but it was soon discovered that during
the night the enemy had abandoned his position, and had disappeared
with all his guns and pom-poms.

With horses utterly tired out, immediate pursuit was impossible,
though by midday patrols of mounted men had regained touch with such of
the Boers as had fallen back upon Magersfontein.

By the afternoon, the whole division had crossed the Riet, and was
concentrated on its northern bank.

[Footnote 177: On the 28th, the field batteries expended ammunition
as follows:--

18th 1,029 rounds 62nd 247 " 75th 1,008 "

The Naval guns 260 "]

[Sidenote: Casualties of Nov. 28th.]

The British casualties consisted of four officers killed (among whom
was Lieut.-Colonel H. R. Stopford, commanding the 2nd battalion Coldstream
Guards) and 19 wounded; among the other ranks 67 were killed, and
370 wounded.[178] The losses among the Boers are not accurately known,
but 23 burghers were found dead in Rosmead and buried near the village,
while 27 bodies were subsequently found in the river itself.

[Footnote 178: For details as to casualties, see Appendix 6.]

CHAPTER XVI.

THE RAID ON SOUTHERN NATAL.[179]

[Footnote 179: See map No. 4.]

[Sidenote: The relation of Ladysmith to the defence of Natal.]

Throughout the operations in Natal during the opening phase of the war,
Sir G. White had held that a mobile force, concentrated north of the
Tugela, afforded better protection to the central and southern portions
of the colony than any number of detachments stationed on the lines
of communication.

Face to face as he was with an enemy in superior strength, the retention
with his field force of every available unit was essential to the
British commander's plan of striking at his opponents whenever an
opportunity offered.

Sir W. Hely-Hutchinson, although anxious as to the security of Maritzburg and Natal
from Boer raids, accepted Sir George's decision, telegraphing to the General on 26th October:
"I shall do my best in consultation with General Wolfe Murray....
I think we shall be able to deal with any small raid, but a raid in
force, especially if supported by guns, will be a serious matter.

We must take the risk, and hope for the best." On October 30th, the
date of the battle of Lombards Kop,[180] the only regular unit on the Natal
line of communication was the 1st Border regiment, which had arrived
at Maritzburg that morning from East London.

Detachments of colonial troops held Colenso bridge and Estcourt. To the eastward
the Umvoti Rifles, a mounted corps rather more than one hundred strong, had
been ordered to fall back from Helpmakaar and watch the ferry, by which the
Dundee-Greytown road crosses the Tugela. A battalion of mounted infantry
was being raised at Maritzburg by Lieut.-Colonel Thorneycroft, Royal
Scots Fusiliers, and another at Durban by Lieut.-Colonel Bethune,
16th Lancers.

[Footnote 180: See Chapter X.]

[Sidenote: Threatened siege changes situation.]

The result of the
battle of 30th October made it probable that the field force at Ladysmith
would be soon cut off from its communications.

       To keep the road open to the south, Sir George White that evening reinforced
the garrison of Colenso by despatching thither by rail from Ladysmith
the 2nd Royal Dublin Fusiliers, a company of mounted infantry, and
the Natal Field battery, whose obsolete 7-pounder guns had been grievously
outranged at Elandslaagte. On arrival at Colenso, the commanding officer
of the Dublin, Colonel C. D. Cooper, assumed command of that post,
finding there one squadron of the Natal Carbineers, one squadron Imperial
Light Horse, a party of mounted Police, and the Durban Light Infantry
(about 380 strong), and a detachment (fifty strong) of the Natal Naval
Volunteers, with two 9-pounder guns.

     The total strength of the command, including the reinforcements
     from Ladysmith, was approximately 1,200 men. The Natal Royal Rifles
(150 strong) were encamped at Estcourt, twenty-five miles in rear.

[Sidenote: An anxious fortnight, Oct. 31st-Nov. 14th.]

On the following day General White telegraphed to the Governor of the colony: "My intention
is to hold Ladysmith, make attacks on the enemy's position whenever possible,
and retain the greatest number of the enemy here." Sir W. Hely-Hutchinson
and the officer commanding the Natal line of communication, Brigadier-General
J. S. Wolfe Murray, were thus confronted with a difficult and anxious
situation.

     
     It was obvious that, having regard to the numerical superiority and greater
     mobility of the
     
     enemy, the British force at Ladysmith would, in all probability, be unable
     to retain the whole of the Boer army. A raid on southern Natal was
     therefore to be expected immediately, and the strength of that raid
might well be such as to overwhelm, or, at any rate, to ignore, the weak
garrisons which so imperfectly covered Maritzburg and Durban. Moreover,
General Murray was aware that even if Sir R. Buller should think
fit to divert from Cape Colony any portion of the expeditionary force
now on the high seas, a fortnight must elapse before a single man
could be landed at Durban.

[Sidenote: Provisional steps in case of Boer raid.]

Maritzburg, from
its topographical environment, is even less adapted by nature for
defence than Ladysmith.

Lying in a deep depression surrounded by high hills, the positions
covering the capital of the colony are so extensive that a very large
force would be needed for their effective occupation.

Nevertheless, after consultation on the afternoon of 31st October
with the Governor and the Prime Minister of the colony (Colonel Hime),
the Brigadier-General decided that, although it was impossible to
protect the town itself, it was advisable to prepare the cantonments,
so-called "Fort Napier," for defence, and for that purpose to borrow
Naval guns from the ships at Durban.

As regards Durban, a telegram was received from Sir Alfred Milner stating
that arrangements had been made by Sir Redvers Buller with the admiral for
the immediate despatch to that port of H.M.S. Terrible and Forte
as a reinforcement to the Tartar and Philomel, already in the harbour,
and suggesting that in the case of a complete disaster to Sir G. White's force
it would be wise to retire on the seaport and there make a stand.

[Sidenote: Changes of stations, Nov. 2nd and 3rd, in expectation of
raid.]

But the responsible military authorities were by no means
inclined to take a pessimistic view of the situation.

The final instructions, dated 1st November, received from Sir G.
White's Chief of the Staff, directed General Murray "to remain and
defend Maritzburg to the last," and on the following day Sir R. Buller
telegraphed from Capetown that a division would be despatched as soon
as possible to Natal, adding: "Do all you can to hold on to Colenso
till troops arrive."

Meanwhile,
a warning had been received from the Intelligence staff at Ladysmith,
that a considerable body of Free Staters was moving on Colenso, and Brigadier-General
Murray, realising that the situation of Colonel Cooper's force at the
bridge, commanded by the heights on the northern bank of the Tugela,
was becoming precarious, directed that officer to fall back on Estcourt,
should he consider his position no longer tenable.

On the afternoon of November 2nd, telegraphic communication between
Colenso and Ladysmith was cut off by the enemy, and a large Boer
commando, having occupied the high ground near Grobelaars Kloof (map No.
15), opened fire on the two little works, Forts Wylie and Molyneux,
which had been constructed by the Natal Volunteers on the left bank of
the Tugela to cover the crossings of that river, and the approaches to
Langewacht Spruit.

The Natal Field battery and Natal Naval Volunteers' guns were again
seriously outranged by the Boer artillery, and Colonel Cooper decided that,
having regard to his instructions, he must fall back on Estcourt. The
withdrawal to that town was effected on the night of November 2nd-3rd
without molestation from the enemy, the infantry being conveyed in special
trains, the mounted troops and field artillery moving by road. The
1st battalion Border regiment was simultaneously pushed forward by
rail from Maritzburg to Estcourt, and Brigadier-General Murray proceeded,
on 3rd November, to the latter station to take personal command of
the force there concentrated, which now amounted in all to about 2,300
men.

With this force, weak though it was in guns and mounted troops, he
intended to dispute the Boer advance from the north, falling back, if
necessary, on the prepared position at Maritzburg.

  
  
A telegram, dated 4th November, conveyed General Buller's approval of these dispositions,
but added: "Do not risk losing Durban by over-prolonged defence of Maritzburg,
but hold the latter so long as you safely can. I fear it will be at least
ten days before I can send you substantial assistance."

[Sidenote: After much delay, on Nov. 13th/99, 4,200 Boers under Joubert
and Botha reach Colenso.]

Fortunately, until the last but one of these ten days, the enemy
held back on the north bank of the Tugela. A Krijgsraad, at which all
the Boer generals and commandants attended, had assembled in front of
Ladysmith on 1st November to decide whether the main effort of the
Boer army should be concentrated on the attack of that town, or whether,
leaving a detachment to hold Sir G. White's troops, they should at
once advance on Maritzburg and Durban.

Some of the younger leaders, including Louis Botha, as yet only plain commandant,
were in favour of the latter course. The majority of the council decided
that, so long as 12,000 effective British troops remained at Ladysmith,
the commandos were not numerous enough to allow them to win the much-coveted
prizes of the capital and seaport of Natal. It was believed that General
White's troops would be unable to withstand an assault. On the 9th
November, therefore, an abortive and ill-arranged attack was made. It
sufficed to show that the Ladysmith garrison was by no means disposed
to yield, and that a formal and perhaps prolonged investment would
be needed to weaken its powers of resistance.

To this task, therefore, the main body of the Boer commandos was assigned;
but, as an erroneous report had come in that 5,000 English troops
had concentrated at Frere, it was decided that a strong reconnaissance,
under the personal command of General Joubert, should cross the Tugela
to ascertain the disposition and strength of the British column.

On the evening, therefore, of the 13th November, a force about 4,200
strong was assembled at Colenso with orders to push to the south. As agreed,
Joubert, although Transvaal Commandant-General, went with it. Louis Botha,
promoted to the rank of "Fighting General," was second in command.

There is reason to believe that the presence of the senior General was due
to a desire to restrain the impetuosity of his subordinate.

[Sidenote: Defensive measures taken during the time of grace given by Boer delay.]

The
fifteen days' breathing space which the authorities in southern Natal had thus been
given, after receipt of the disquieting intelligence of the battle of Lombards
Kop, had been of great value. Captain Percy Scott, H.M.S. Terrible,
had reached Durban on November 6th, and was appointed commandant of
that town. A defence scheme was prepared and a battalion of "Imperial
Light Infantry" was raised to assist the Naval contingent,[181] and
guns (including two 4.7-in. guns and sixteen 12-pr. 12-cwt.) were
landed for its protection.

     
     
     
     
     At Maritzburg a position in the vicinity of Fort Napier had, under the
supervision of Col. C. C. Rawson, C.R.E., been prepared for defence,
the work being executed by a hastily improvised Pioneer Corps of artisans,
assisted by native labour.

In selecting this position and planning its defence, it was assumed
that if the force at Estcourt fell back on Maritzburg, 4,000 men
in all would be available for its occupation.

Meanwhile, in addition
to Thorneycroft's corps, the recruiting and training of which were proceeding
satisfactorily, a provisional garrison was arranged for Maritzburg by
the despatch of two 12-pounders and a Naval detachment from the fleet
at Durban, by the withdrawal of the detachment of the Naval Volunteers
from Estcourt, and by the organisation into a Town Guard of all able-bodied
citizens willing to carry a rifle.

Moreover, some 150 loyal and zealous Natal colonists volunteered for
scouting duties, and were formed into a corps under the command of the
Hon. T. K. Murray, C.M.G., finding their own horses, saddlery, and rifles,
and serving without pay. This body of patriotic men did useful work
to the north of Maritzburg, in the neighbourhood of Mooi River, from the
4th to the 16th November, when on the arrival of reinforcements from
the Cape they were released from further duty, and thanked in General
Orders for their "excellent service."

[Footnote 181: This contingent consisted of parties from the Terrible, Forte,
Thetis, Philomel and Tartar, of a total strength of 35 officers and 423
men. Commander Limpus, R.N., was placed in command of the guns (see p.
120).]

[Sidenote: Nov. 11th/99. Reinforcements begin to disembark. Sir F. Clery
takes command, Nov. 15th.]

On 11th November General Murray, with the approval of Sir R. Buller, handed
over the command of the Estcourt garrison to Colonel Charles Long,
R.H.A., and returned to Maritzburg to direct personally the heavy work
falling on the line of communication staff in arranging for the disembarkation
and equipment of the reinforcements, whose arrival at Durban was now
hourly expected

.
 Dis what she sing:

  "Milk in de dairy nine days old,
  Sing-song Kitty, can't you ki-me-o?
  Frogs and skeeters gittin' mighty bol!
  Sing-song, Kitty, can't you ki-me-o?

  (Chorus)

  Keemo, kimo, darro, wharro,
  With me hi, me ho;
  In come Sally singin'
    Sometime penny winkle,
  Lingtum nip cat,
  Sing-song, Kitty, can't you ki-me-o?

  Dere a frog live in a pool,
  Sing-song, Kitty, can't you ki-me-o?
  Sure he was de bigges' fool,
  Sing-song Kitty, can't you ki-me-o?

  For he could dance and he could sing
  Sing-song, Kitty, can't you ki-me-o?
  And make de woods aroun' him ring
  Sing-song, Kitty, can't you ki-me-o?'

"Old massa didn't hold with de way some mean massas treat dey niggers. Dere a place on our
plantation what us call 'De old meadow.' It was common for runaway niggers to have place 'long
de way to hide and res' when dey run off from mean massa. Massa used to give 'em somethin'
to eat when dey hide dere. I saw dat place operated, though it wasn't knowed by dat den, but
long time after I finds out dey call it part of de 'Underground railroad.' Dey was stops like
dat all de way up to de north.

"We have went down to Columbia when I 'bout 11 year old and dat where de first gun fired. Us
rush back home, but I could say I heered de first guns of de war shot, at Fort Sumter.

"When Gen'ral Sherman come 'cross de Savannah River in South Carolina, some of he sojers come
right 'cross us plantation. All de neighbors have brung dey cotton and stack it in de thicket
on de Lipscomb place. Sherman men find it and sot it on fire. Dat cotton stack was big as a
little courthouse and it took two months' burnin'.

"My old massa run off and stay in de woods a whole week when Sherman men come through. He didn't
need to worry, 'cause us took care of everythin'. Dey a funny song us make up 'bout him runnin'
off in de woods. I know it was make up, 'cause my uncle have a hand in it. It went like dis:

  'White folks, have you seed old massa
  Up de road, with he mustache on?
  He pick up he hat and he leave real sudden
  And I 'lieve he's up and gone.

  (Chorus)

  'Old massa run away
  And us darkies stay at home.
  It mus' be now dat Kingdom's comin'
  And de year of Jubilee.

  'He look up de river and he seed dat smoke
  Where de Lincoln gunboats lay.
  He big 'nuff and he old 'nuff and he orter know better,
  But he gone and run away.

  'Now dat overseer want to give trouble
  And trot us 'round a spell,
  But we lock him up in de smokehouse cellar,
  With de key done throwed in de well.'

"Right after dat I start to be boy what run mail from camp to camp for de sojers. One time
I capture by a bunch of deserters what was hidin' in de woods 'long Pacolet River. Dey didn't
hurt me, though, but dey mos' scare me to death. Dey parole me and turn me loose. 

No doubt wealth when very great tends to convert men into useless
drones, but their number is never large; and some degree of elimination
here occurs, for we daily see rich men, who happen to be fools or
profligate, squandering away their wealth.

Primogeniture with entailed estates is a more direct evil, though
it may formerly have been a great advantage by the creation of a dominant
class, and any government is better than none.

Most eldest sons, though they may be weak in body or mind, marry, whilst the younger sons, however superior
in these respects, do not so generally marry. Nor can worthless eldest sons with entailed estates
squander their wealth. But here, as elsewhere, the relations of civilised life are so complex
that some compensatory checks intervene.

  The men who are rich
  through primogeniture are able to select
  generation after generation the more beautiful and charming women;
and these must generally be healthy in body and active in mind. The
evil consequences, such as they may be, of the continued preservation
of the same line of descent, without any selection, are checked by
men of rank always wishing to increase their wealth and power; and
this they effect by marrying heiresses.

  

  
  But the daughters of parents who have produced single children, are
themselves, as Mr. Galton (12. 'Hereditary Genius,' 1870, pp. 132-140.)
has shewn, apt to be sterile; and thus noble families are continually
cut off in the direct line, and their wealth flows into some side
channel; but unfortunately this channel is not determined by superiority
of any kind.

  
  Although civilisation thus checks in many ways the action of natural selection,
it apparently favours the better development of the body, by means
of good food and the freedom from occasional hardships. This may be inferred from
civilised men having been found, wherever compared, to be physically
stronger than savages.

  
  

  (13. Quatrefages, 'Revue des Cours
  Scientifiques,' 1867-68, p. 659.) They appear
  also to have equal powers of endurance, as has been proved in many adventurous
expeditions. Even the great luxury of the rich can be but little detrimental;
for the expectation of life of our aristocracy, at all ages and of both sexes,
is very little inferior to that of healthy English lives in the lower
classes.

(14. See the fifth and sixth columns, compiled from good authorities, in the table given in Mr.
E.R. Lankester's 'Comparative Longevity,' 1870, p. 115.)

We will now look to the intellectual faculties. If in each grade of society the members were divided
into two equal bodies, the one including the intellectually superior and the other the inferior,
there can be little doubt that the former would succeed best in all
occupations, and rear a greater number of children. Even in the lowest
walks of life, skill and ability must be of some advantage; though
in many occupations, owing to the great division of labour, a very
small one.

Hence in civilised nations there will be some tendency to an increase both in the number and
in the standard of the intellectually able. But I do not wish to assert that this tendency may
not be more than counterbalanced in other ways, as by the multiplication
of the reckless and improvident; but even to such as these, ability
must be some advantage.

It has often been objected to views like the foregoing, that the most
eminent men who have ever lived have left no offspring to inherit
their great intellect.

Mr. Galton says, "I regret I am unable to solve the simple question whether,
and how far, men and women who are prodigies of genius are infertile.

I have, however, shewn that men of eminence are by no means so." (15. 'Hereditary Genius,' 1870,
p. 330.) Great lawgivers, the founders of beneficent religions, great philosophers and discoverers
in science, aid the progress of mankind in a far higher degree by
their works than by leaving a numerous progeny.

In the case of corporeal structures, it is the selection of the slightly
better-endowed and the elimination of the slightly less well-endowed
individuals, and not the preservation of strongly-marked and rare
anomalies, that leads to the advancement of a species.

(16. 'Origin of Species' (fifth edition, 1869), p. 104.) So it will be with the intellectual faculties,
since the somewhat abler men in each grade of society succeed rather better than the less able, and
consequently increase in number, if not otherwise prevented. When in any nation the standard
of intellect and the number of intellectual men have increased, we may expect from the law of the
deviation from an average, that prodigies of genius will, as shewn
by Mr. Galton, appear somewhat more frequently than before.

In regard to the moral qualities, some elimination of the worst dispositions
is always in progress even in the most civilised nations. Malefactors
are executed, or imprisoned for long periods, so that they cannot
freely transmit their bad qualities.

Melancholic and insane persons are confined, or commit suicide. Violent and quarrelsome men
often come to a bloody end. The restless who will not follow any steady occupation--and this relic
of barbarism is a great check to civilisation (17. 'Hereditary Genius,' 1870, p. 347.)--emigrate to newly-settled
countries; where they prove useful pioneers. Intemperance is so highly
destructive, that the expectation of life of the intemperate, at the age
of thirty for instance, is only 13.8 years; whilst for the rural labourers
of England at the same age it is 40.59 years.

(18. E. Ray Lankester, 'Comparative Longevity,' 1870, p. 115. The table of the intemperate is from Neison's 'Vital
Statistics.' In regard to profligacy, see Dr. Farr, 'Influence of Marriage
on Mortality,' 'Nat. Assoc. for the Promotion of Social Science,' 1858.) Profligate
women bear few children, and profligate men rarely marry; both suffer
from disease.

In the breeding of domestic animals, the elimination of those individuals, though few in number,
which are in any marked manner inferior, is by no means an unimportant element towards success.
This especially holds good with injurious characters which tend to reappear through reversion,
such as blackness in sheep; and with mankind some of the worst dispositions,
which occasionally without any assignable cause make their appearance
in families, may perhaps be reversions to a savage state, from which
we are not removed by very many generations.

This view seems indeed recognised in the common expression that such
men are the black sheep of the family.

With civilised nations, as far as an advanced standard of morality,
and an increased number of fairly good men are concerned, natural selection
apparently effects but little; though the fundamental social instincts
were originally thus gained.

But I have already said enough, whilst treating of the lower races,
on the causes which lead to the advance of morality, namely, the approbation
of our fellow-men--the strengthening of our sympathies by habit--example
and imitation--reason--experience, and even self-interest--instruction
during youth, and religious feelings.

     
     A most important obstacle in civilised countries to an increase in the
     number of men of a superior class has been strongly insisted on by Mr.
     Greg and Mr. Galton (19. 'Fraser's Magazine,' Sept. 1868, p. 353. 'Macmillan's
Magazine,' Aug. 1865, p. 318. The Rev. F.W. Farrar ('Fraser's Magazine,'
Aug. 1870, p. 264) takes a different view.), namely, the fact that the
very poor and reckless, who are often degraded by vice, almost invariably
marry early, whilst the careful and frugal, who are generally otherwise
virtuous, marry late in life, so that they may be able to support
themselves and their children in comfort.

Those who marry early produce within a given period not only a greater number of generations,
but, as shewn by Dr. Duncan (20. 'On the Laws of the Fertility of
Women,' in 'Transactions of the Royal Society,' Edinburgh, vol. xxiv.
p. 287; now published separately under the title of 'Fecundity, Fertility,
and Sterility,' 1871.

See, also, Mr. Galton, 'Hereditary Genius,' pp. 352-357, for observations
to the above effect.), they produce many more children. The children,
moreover, that are borne by mothers during the prime of life are heavier
and larger, and therefore probably more vigorous, than those born
at other periods.

Thus the reckless, degraded, and often vicious members of society,
tend to increase at a quicker rate than the provident and generally virtuous
members. Or as Mr. Greg puts the case: "The careless, squalid, unaspiring
Irishman multiplies like rabbits: the frugal, foreseeing, self-respecting,
ambitious Scot, stern in his morality, spiritual in his faith, sagacious
and disciplined in his intelligence, passes his best years in struggle
and in celibacy, marries late, and leaves few behind him.

Given a land originally peopled by a thousand Saxons and a thousand Celts--and in a dozen generations
five-sixths of the population would be Celts, but five- sixths of the property, of the power, of the
intellect, would belong to the one-sixth of Saxons that remained. In the eternal 'struggle for
existence,' it would be the inferior and LESS favoured race that had prevailed--and prevailed
by virtue not of its good qualities but of its faults."

There are, however, some checks to this downward tendency. We have seen that
the intemperate suffer from a high rate of mortality, and the extremely
profligate leave few offspring.

The poorest classes crowd into towns, and it has been proved by Dr. Stark from the statistics
of ten years in Scotland (21. 'Tenth Annual Report of Births, Deaths,
etc., in Scotland,' 1867, p. xxix.), that at all ages the death-rate
is higher in towns than in rural districts, "and during the first
five years of life the town death-rate is almost exactly double that
of the rural districts."

As these returns include both the rich and the poor, no doubt more than twice the number of births
would be requisite to keep up the number of the very poor inhabitants in the towns, relatively to
those in the country. With women, marriage at too early an age is highly injurious; for it has
been found in France that, "Twice as many wives under twenty die in the
year, as died out of the same number of the unmarried." The mortality,
also, of husbands under twenty is "excessively high" (22.

These quotations are taken from our highest authority on such questions, namely, Dr. Farr, in his
paper 'On the Influence of Marriage on the Mortality of the French
People,' read before the Nat.

Assoc. for the Promotion of Social Science, 1858.), but what the
cause of this may be, seems doubtful. Lastly, if the men who prudently delay
marrying until they can bring up their families in comfort, were to select,
as they often do, women in the prime of life, the rate of increase in
the better class would be only slightly lessened.

It was established from an enormous body of statistics, taken during 1853, that the unmarried men
throughout France, between the ages of twenty and eighty, die in a much larger proportion than
the married: for instance, out of every 1000 unmarried men, between
the ages of twenty and thirty, 11.3 annually died, whilst of the married,
only 6.5 died. (23. Dr. Farr, ibid. The quotations given below are extracted
from the same striking paper.) A similar law was proved to hold good,
during the years 1863 and 1864, with the entire population above
the age of twenty in Scotland: for instance, out of every 1000 unmarried
men, between the ages of twenty and thirty, 14.97 annually died, whilst
of the married only 7.24 died, that is less than half.

(24.

I have taken the mean of the quinquennial means, given in 'The Tenth Annual
Report of Births, Deaths, etc., in Scotland,' 1867.

     
     
     The quotation from Dr. Stark is copied from an article in the 'Daily
     News,' Oct. 17, 1868, which Dr. Farr considers very carefully written.)
     Dr. Stark remarks on this, "Bachelorhood is more destructive to life
     than the most unwholesome trades, or than residence in an unwholesome
     house or district where there has never been the most distant attempt
at sanitary improvement."

He considers that the lessened mortality is the direct result of "marriage, and the more regular
domestic habits which attend that state." He admits, however, that the intemperate, profligate, and criminal
classes, whose duration of life is low, do not commonly marry; and
it must likewise be admitted that men with a weak constitution, ill
health, or any great infirmity in body or mind, will often not wish
to marry, or will be rejected.

Dr. Stark seems to have come to the conclusion that marriage in itself
is a main cause of prolonged life, from finding that aged married
men still have a considerable advantage in this respect over the unmarried
of the same advanced age; but every one must have known instances
of men, who with weak health during youth did not marry, and yet have
survived to old age, though remaining weak, and therefore always with
a lessened chance of life or of marrying.

There is another
remarkable circumstance which seems to support Dr. Stark's conclusion,
namely, that widows and widowers in France suffer in comparison with
the married a very heavy rate of mortality; but Dr. Farr attributes
this to the poverty and evil habits consequent on the disruption of
the family, and to grief.

On the whole we may conclude with Dr. Farr that the lesser mortality
of married than of unmarried men, which seems to be a general law,
"is mainly due to the constant elimination of imperfect types, and
to the skilful selection of the finest individuals out of each successive
generation;" the selection relating only to the marriage state, and
acting on all corporeal, intellectual, and moral qualities.

(25. Dr. Duncan remarks ('Fecundity, Fertility, etc.' 1871, p. 334) on this subject: "At every age
the healthy and beautiful go over from the unmarried side to the married, leaving the unmarried
columns crowded with the sickly and unfortunate.") We may, therefore,
infer that sound and good men who out of prudence remain for a time
unmarried, do not suffer a high rate of mortality.

If the various checks specified in the two last paragraphs, and perhaps
others as yet unknown, do not prevent the reckless, the vicious and
otherwise inferior members of society from increasing at a quicker
rate than the better class of men, the nation will retrograde, as
has too often occurred in the history of the world.

We must remember that progress is no invariable rule. It is very difficult to say why one civilised
nation rises, becomes more powerful, and spreads more widely, than
another; or why the same nation progresses more quickly at one time
than at another. We can only say that it depends on an increase in the
actual number of the population, on the number of men endowed with
high intellectual and moral faculties, as well as on their standard
of excellence.

Corporeal structure appears to have little influence, except so far
as vigour of body leads to vigour of mind.

It has been urged by several writers that as high intellectual powers are advantageous to a nation,
the old Greeks, who stood some grades higher in intellect than any race
that has ever existed (26. See the ingenious and original argument
on this subject by Mr. Galton, 'Hereditary Genius,' pp. 340-342.), ought,
if the power of natural selection were real, to have risen still higher
in the scale, increased in number, and stocked the whole of Europe.

Here we have the tacit assumption, so often made with respect to corporeal structures, that
there is some innate tendency towards continued development in mind and body. But development of all kinds
depends on many concurrent favourable circumstances. Natural selection
acts only tentatively. Individuals and races may have acquired certain indisputable
advantages, and yet have perished from failing in other characters.
The Greeks may have retrograded from a want of coherence between
the many small states, from the small size of their whole country,
from the practice of slavery, or from extreme sensuality; for they
did not succumb until "they were enervated and corrupt to the very
core."

(27. Mr. Greg, 'Fraser's Magazine,' Sept. 1868, p. 357.) The western nations of Europe, who now so immeasurably
surpass their former savage progenitors, and stand at the summit of civilisation, owe little
or none of their superiority to direct inheritance from the old Greeks, though they owe much to the written
works of that wonderful people.

Who can positively say why the Spanish nation, so dominant at one time, has been distanced in the
race. The awakening of the nations of Europe from the dark ages is a still more perplexing problem.
At that early period, as Mr. Galton has remarked, almost all the men of a gentle nature, those given
to meditation or culture of the mind, had no refuge except in the bosom of a Church which demanded
celibacy (28. 'Hereditary Genius,' 1870, pp. 357- 359. The Rev. F.W. Farrar ('Fraser's Magazine,' Aug. 1870,
p. 257) advances arguments on the other side. Sir C. Lyell had already
('Principles of Geology,' vol. ii. 1868, p. 489), in a striking passage
called attention to the evil influence of the Holy Inquisition in
having, through selection, lowered the general standard of intelligence
in Europe.); and this could hardly fail to have had a deteriorating
influence on each successive generation.

During this same period the Holy Inquisition selected with extreme care the freest and boldest
men in order to burn or imprison them. In Spain alone some of the
best men--those who doubted and questioned, and without doubting
there can be no progress--were eliminated during three centuries at
the rate of a thousand a year. The evil which the Catholic Church has
thus effected is incalculable, though no doubt counterbalanced to
a certain, perhaps to a large, extent in other ways; nevertheless,
Europe has progressed at an unparalleled rate.

The remarkable success of the English as colonists, compared to other
European nations, has been ascribed to their "daring and persistent
energy"; a result which is well illustrated by comparing the progress
of the Canadians of English and French extraction; but who can say
how the English gained their energy?

There is apparently much truth in the belief that the wonderful progress
of the United States, as well as the character of the people, are
the results of natural selection; for the more energetic, restless,
and courageous men from all parts of Europe have emigrated during
the last ten or twelve generations to that great country, and have
there succeeded best.

(29. Mr. Galton, 'Macmillan's Magazine,' August 1865, p. 325. See also, 'Nature,' 'On Darwinism
and National Life,' Dec. 1869, p. 184.) Looking to the distant future, I do not think that
the Rev. Mr. Zincke takes an exaggerated view when he says (30.
'Last Winter in the United States,' 1868, p. 29.): "All other series of events--as
that which resulted in the culture of mind in Greece, and that which
resulted in the empire of Rome--only appear to have purpose and value
when viewed in connection with, or rather as subsidiary to...the
great stream of Anglo- Saxon emigration to the west."

Obscure as is the problem of the advance of civilisation, we can at least see that a nation which
produced during a lengthened period the greatest number of highly intellectual, energetic, brave,
patriotic, and benevolent men, would generally prevail over less favoured nations.

Natural selection follows from the struggle for existence; and this
from a rapid rate of increase.

It is impossible not to regret bitterly, but whether wisely is another
question, the rate at which man tends to increase; for this leads in
barbarous tribes to infanticide and many other evils, and in civilised
nations to abject poverty, celibacy, and to the late marriages of
the prudent.

But as man suffers from the same physical evils as the lower animals,
he has no right to expect an immunity from the evils consequent on
the struggle for existence. Had he not been subjected during primeval times
to natural selection, assuredly he would never have attained to his
present rank.

Since we see in many parts of the world enormous areas of the most
fertile land capable of supporting numerous happy homes, but peopled only
by a few wandering savages, it might be argued that the struggle
for existence had not been sufficiently severe to force man upwards
to his highest standard.

Judging from all that we know of man and the lower animals, there has always been sufficient variability
in their intellectual and moral faculties, for a steady advance through
natural selection. No doubt such advance demands many favourable concurrent
circumstances; but it may well be doubted whether the most favourable
would have sufficed, had not the rate of increase been rapid, and
the consequent struggle for existence extremely severe. You know what us drink for coffee
in slave times? Parched meal, and it purty good iffen you know's how.

"Us don't have much singin' on our place, 'cepting at church on Sunday. Law me, de folks what
works in de fields feels more like cryin' at night. Us chillen used to sing dis:

  "'Where you goin', buzzard,
  Where you gwine to go?
    I's goin' down to new ground,
  For to hunt Jim Crow.'

"I guess Massa Charles, what taken us when Massa Kit die, was 'bout de same as all white folks
what owned slaves, some good and some bad. We has plenty to eat--more'n I has now--and plenty
clothes and shoes. But de overseer was Uncle Big Jake, what's black like de rest of us, but
he so mean I 'spect de devil done make him overseer down below long time ago. Dat de bad part
of Massa Charles, 'cause he lets Uncle Jake whip de slaves so much dat some like my papa what
had spirit was all de time runnin' 'way. And even does your stomach be full, and does you have
plenty clothes, dat bullwhip on your bare hide make you forgit de good part, and dat's de truth.

"Uncle Big Jake sho' work de slaves from early mornin' till night. When you is in de field
you better not lag none. When its fallin' weather de hands is put to work fixin' dis and dat.
De woman what has li'l chillen don't have to work so hard. Dey works 'round de sugar house
and come 11 o'clock dey quits and cares for de babies till 1 o'clock, and den works till 3
o'clock and quits.

"Massa Charles have a arbor and dat's where we has preachin'. One day old Uncle Law preachin'
and he say, 'De Lawd make everyone to come in unity and on de level, both white and black.'
When Massa Charles hears 'bout it, he don't like it none, and de next mornin' old Uncle Jake
git Uncle Law and put him out in de field with de rest. 

For any one who demands plot there is one--of such gigantic dimensions, indeed,
that it is not easy to grasp it, but seen to be singularly well articulated
and put together when it is once grasped.

Huge as it is, it is not in the least formless, and, as has been several times pointed out, hardly the most
(as it may at first appear) wanton and unpardonable episode, digression, or inset lacks its due connection
with and "orientation" towards the end. The contrast of this with the more or less formless
chronicle-fashion, the "overthwart and endlong" conduct, of almost all the romances from the Carlovingian
and Arthurian[193] to the Amadis type, is of the most unmistakable
kind.

Again, though character, as has been admitted, in any real live sense, is
terribly wanting still; though description is a little general and
wants more "streaks in the tulip"; and though conversation is formal
and stilted, there is evident, perhaps even in the first, certainly
in the second and third cases, an effort to treat them at any rate systematically,
in accordance with some principles of art, and perhaps even not without
some eye to the actual habits, manners, demands of the time--things
which again were quite new in prose fiction, and, in fact, could hardly
be said to be anywhere present in literature outside of drama.

To set against these not so very small merits in the present, and
very considerable seeds of promise for the future, there are, of
course, serious faults or defects--defaults which need, however, less
insistence, because they are much more generally known, much more
obvious, and have been already admitted.

The charge of excessive length need hardly be dealt with at all. It has already been said that
the most interesting point about it is the opportunity of discovering
how it was, in part, a regular, and, in fact, almost the furthest possible,
development of a characteristic which had been more or less observable
throughout the progress of romance. But it may be added that the law of
supply and demand helped; for people evidently were not in the least
bored by bulk, and that the fancy for having a book "on hand" has
only lately, if it has actually, died out.[194] Now such a "book on
hand" as the Grand Cyrus exists, as far as my knowledge goes, in no
Western literature, unless you count collections of letters, which
is not fair, or such memoirs as Saint-Simon's, which do not appeal
to quite the same class of readers.

A far more serious default or defect--not exactly blameworthy, because
the time was not yet, but certainly to be taken account of--is the
almost utter want of character just referred to.

From Cyrus and Mandane downwards the people have qualities; but qualities, though they are necessary
to character, do not constitute it. Very faint approaches may be discerned, by very benevolent
criticism, in such a personage as Martésie with her shrewdness, her maid-of-honour familiarity
with the ways and manners of courtly human beings, and that very pardonable, indeed agreeable,
tendency, which has been noticed or imagined, to flirt in respectful fashion with Cyrus, while carrying
on more regular business with Feraulas. But it is little more than
a suggestion, and it has been frankly admitted that it is perhaps not
even that, but an imagination merely. And the same observation may apply to her
"second string," Doralise. No others of the women have any character
at all, and we have already spoken of the men.

Now these things, in a book very widely read and immensely admired, could not, and did not, fail
to have their effect. Nobody--we shall see this more in detail in the
next chapter--can fail to perceive that the Princesse de Clèves itself is,
from one point of view, only a histoire of the Grand Cyrus, taken
out of its preposterous matrix of other matter, polished, charged
with a great addition of internal fire of character and passion, and
left to take its chance alone and unencumbered.

Nobody, on the other hand, who knows Richardson and Mademoiselle de Scudéry can doubt the influence
of the French book--a century old as it was--on the "father of the English
novel." Now any influence exerted on these two was, beyond controversy,
an influence exerted on the whole future course of the kind, and it is as
exercising such an influence that we have given to the Great Cyrus
so great a space.

* * * * *

[Sidenote: The other Scudéry romances--Ibrahim.]

After the exhaustive
account given of Artamène, it is probably not necessary to apologise
for dealing with the rest of Mlle. de Scudéry's novel work, and with
that of her comrades in the Heroic romance, at no very great length.

Ibrahim ou L'Illustre Bassa has sometimes been complimented as showing
more endeavour, if not exactly at "local colour," at technical accuracy,
than the rest.

It is true that the French were, at this time, rather amusingly proud
of being the only Western nation treated on something like equal terms
by the Sublime Porte, and that the Scudérys (possibly Georges, whose
work the Dedication to Mlle. de Rohan, daughter of the famous soldier,
pretty certainly is) may have taken some pains to acquire knowledge.

"Sandjak" (or "Sanjiac"), not for a district but for its governor,
is a little unlucky perhaps; but "Aderbion" is much nearer "Azerbaijan"
than one generally expects in such cases from French writers of the
seventeenth or even of other centuries.

The Oriental character of the story, however, is but partial. The Illustrious Pasha himself, though First
Vizir and "victorious" general of Soliman the Second, is not a Turk at all, but a "Justinian"
or Giustiniani of Genoa, whose beloved Isabelle is a Princess of Monaco, and who at the end, after necessary
dangers,[195] retires with her to that Principality, with a punctilious explanation from the
author about the Grimaldis. The scene is partly there and at Genoa--the
best Genoese families, including the Dorias, appearing--partly at Constantinople:
and the business at the latter place is largely concerned with the
intrigues, jealousies, and cruelties of Roxelane, who is drawn much
more (one regrets to say) as history paints her than as the agreeable
creature of Marmontel's subsequent fancy.

The book is a mere cockboat beside the mighty argosy of the Cyrus, running only to four volumes
and some two thousand pages. But though smaller, it is much "stodgier." The Histoires break out at once
with the story of a certain Alibech--much more proper for the young person than that
connected with the same name by Boccaccio,--and those who have acquired
some knowledge of Mlle. Madeleine's ways will know what it means when,
adopting the improper but defensible practice of "looking at the end," they
find that not merely "Justinian" and Isabelle, but a Horace and a Hypolite,
a Doria and a Sophronie, an Alphonse and a Léonide are all married on
the same day, while a "French Marquis" and an Emilie vow inviolable
but celibate constancy to each other; they will know, that is to say,
that in the course of the book all these will have been duly "historiated."

To encourage them, a single hint that Léonide sometimes plays a little of the
parts of Martésie and Doralise in the Cyrus may be thrown in.

There is, however, one sentence in the second volume of Ibrahim which is worth
quotation and brief comment, because it is a text for the whole management and
system of these novels, and accounts for much in their successors
almost to the present day.

Emilie is telling the Histoire of Isabelle, and excuses herself for not beginning
at the beginning: "Puisque je sais que vous n'ignorez pas l'amour du
Prince de Masseran, les violences et les artifices de Julie, la trahison
de Féliciane, le généreux ressentiment de Doria [this is another Doria],
la mort de cet amant infortuné, et ensuite celle de Julie."

     In other words, all these things have been the subject of previous histories
     or of the main text. And so it is always. Diderot admired, or at least
     excused, that procedure of Richardson's
     
which involved the telling of the conversation of an average dinner-party
in something like a small volume. But the "Heroic" method would have
made it necessary to tell the previous experiences of the lady you took
down to dinner, and the man that you talked to afterwards, while,
if extended from aristocratic to democratic ideas, it would have justified
a few remarks on the cabmen who brought both, and the butcher and
fishmonger who supplied the feast. The inconvenience of this earlier
practice made itself felt, and by degrees it dropped off; but it
was succeeded by a somewhat similar habit of giving the subsequent
history of personages introduced--a thing which, though Scott satirised
it in Mrs. Martha Buskbody's insistence on information about the later
history of Guse Gibbie,[196] by no means ceased with his time.

Both were, in fact, part of the general refusal to accept the conditions
of ordinary life.

If "tout passe" is an exaggeration, it is an exaggeration of the truth:
and in fiction, as in fact, the minor shapes must dissolve as well
as arise without too much fuss being made about them.[197]

[Sidenote: Almahide.]

Almahide is, I think, more readable than Ibrahim; but the English reader
must disabuse himself of the idea (if he entertains it) that he will
find much of the original of The Conquest of Granada. The book does, indeed,
open like the play, with the faction-fights of Abencerrages and Zegrys,
and it ends with Boabdelin's jealousy of his wife Almahide, while a
few of the other names in both are identical. But Almahide contains nothing,
or hardly anything, of the character of Almanzor, and Dryden has not
attempted to touch a hundredth part of the copious matter of the
French novel, the early history of Almahide, the usual immense digressions
and side-histoires, the descriptions (which, as in Ibrahim, play,
I think, a larger relative part than in the Cyrus), and what not.

[Sidenote: Clélie.]

[Sidenote: Perhaps the liveliest of the set.]

Copious as these are, however, in both books, they do not fill them out to anything like the length
of the Cyrus itself, or of its rival in size, and perhaps superior in attraction,
the Clélie. I do not plead guilty to inconsistency or change of opinion
in this "perhaps" when it is compared with the very much larger space
given to the earlier novel. Le Grand Cyrus has been estated too firmly,
as the type and representative of the whole class, to be dislodged,
and there is, as we shall see presently, a good deal of repetition
from it in Clélie itself.

But this latter is the more amusing book of the two; it is, though equally or nearly as big,
less labyrinthine; there is somewhat livelier movement in it, and at the same time this is contrasted
with a set or series of interludes of love-casuistry, which are better, I think, than anything of the kind in
the Cyrus.[198] The most famous feature of these is, of course, the well-known
but constantly misnamed "Carte de Tendre" ("Map of the Country of Tenderness"--not of
"Tenderness in the aibstract," as du Tendre would be). The discussion of what constitutes
Tenderness comes quite early; there is later a notable discourse on the respective
attractions of Love and of Glory or Ambition; a sort of Code and
Anti-code of lovers[199] occurs as "The Love-Morality of Tiramus,"
with a set of (not always) contrary criticism thereof; and a debate
of an almost mediaeval kind as to the respective merits of merry and
melancholy mistresses.

Moreover, there is a rather remarkable "Vision of Poets"--past,
present, and to come--which should be taken in connection with the
appearance, as an actual personage, of Anacreon.

All this, taken in conjunction with the "business" of the story, helps to give it the
superior liveliness with which it has, rightly or wrongly, been credited
here.

[Sidenote: Rough outline of it.]

Of that business itself a complete account cannot, for reasons given
more than once, be attempted; though anybody who wants such a thing,
without going to the book itself, may find it in the places also above
mentioned.

There is no such trick played upon the educated but not wideawake person as (v. inf.) in La
Calprenède's chief books. Clélie is the real Clelia, if the modern historical student will pass
"real" without sniffing, or even if he will not. Her lover, "Aronce," although he probably may be a little
disguised from the English reader by his spelling, is so palpably the again
real "Aruns," son of Porsena, that one rather wonders how his identity
can have been so long concealed in French (where the pronunciations
would be practically the same) from the readers of the story.

The book begins with a proceeding not quite so like that of the Cyrus
as some to be mentioned later, but still pretty close to the elder
overture.

"The illustrious Aronce and the adorable Clelia" are actually going to
be married, when there is a fearful storm, an earthquake, and a disappearance
of the heroine. She has, of course, been carried off; one might say,
without flippancy, of any heroine of Madeleine de Scudéry's not only
that she was, as in a famous and already quoted saying, "very liable
to be carried off," but that it was not in nature that she should
not be carried off as early and as often as possible.

And her abductor is no less a person than Horatius--our own Horatius Cocles--the
one who kept the bridge in some of the best known of English verses, not
he who provoked, from the sister whom he murdered, the greatest speech in
all French tragedy before, and perhaps not merely before, Victor Hugo.
Horatius is the Philidaspes of Clélie, but, as he was bound to be,
an infinitely better fellow and of a better fate.

Of course the end knits straight on to the beginning. Clélie and Aronce are united without an
earthquake, and Porsena, with obliging gallantry, resigns the crown of Clusium (from which he
has himself long been kept out by a "Mezentius," who will hardly work
in with Virgil's), not to Aronce, but to Clélie herself. The enormous interval between
(the book is practically as long as the Cyrus) is occupied by the
same, or (v. sup.) nearly the same tissue of delays, digressions, and
other maze-like devices for setting you off on a new quest when you
seem to be quite close to the goal. A large part of the scene is in Carthage,
where, reversing the process in regard to Mezentius, Asdrubals and
Amilcars make their appearance in a very "mixedly" historical fashion.

A Prince of Numidia (who had heard of Numidia in Tarquin's days?) fights a lively water-combat with Horatius
actually as he is carrying Clélie off, over the Lake of Thrasymene. All the stock legends of the
Porsena siege and others are duly brought in: and the atrocious Sextus,
not contented with his sin against Lucrèce, tries to carry off Clélie
likewise, but is fortunately or wisely prevented. Otherwise the invariable
propriety which from the time of the small love-novels (v. sup. pp.
157-162) had distinguished these abductions might possibly have been
broken through.

These outlines might be expanded (and the process would not be very painful to me) into an
abstract quite as long as that of Cyrus; but "It Cannot Be."

One objection, foreshadowed, and perhaps a little more, already, must
be allowed against Clélie.

That tendency to resort to repetition of situations and movements--which has
shown itself so often, and which practically distinguishes the very
great novelists from those not so great by its absence or presence--is
obvious here, though the huge size of the book may conceal it from mere
dippers, unless they be experts.

The similarity of the openings is, comparatively speaking, a usual
thing.

It should not happen, and does not in really great writers; but it is tempting, and is to some extent
excused by the brocard about le premier pas. It is so nice to put yourself in front of your beginning--to
have made sure of it! But this charity will hardly extend to such a
thing as the repetition of Cyrus's foolish promise to fight Philidaspes before
he marries Mandane in the case of Aronce, Horatius, and Clélie.

The way in which Aronce is kept an "unknown" for some time, and
that in which his actual relationship to Porsena is treated, have
also too much of the replica; and though a lively skirmish with a
pirate which occurs is not quite so absurd as that ready-made series of
encores which was described above (pp. 181-2), there is something
a little like it in the way in which the hero and his men alternately
reduce the enemy to extremity, and run over the deck to rescue friends
who are in the pirates' power from being butchered or flung overboard.

     "Sapho's" invention, though by no means sterile, was evidently somewhat
     indiscriminate, and she would seem to have thought it rather
     a pity that a good thing should be used only once.
     
     Nevertheless the compliment given above may be repeated. If I were
sent to twelve months' imprisonment of a mild description, and allowed
to choose a library, I should include in it, from the heroic or semi-heroic
division, Clélie, La Calprenède's two chief books, Gomberville's Polexandre,
and Gombauld's Endimion (this partly for the pictures), with, as
a matter of course, the Astrée, and a choice of one other.

By reading slowly and "savouring" the process, I should imagine that, with
one's memories of other things, they might be able to last for a year. And it
would be one of the best kind of fallows for the brain. In anticipation,
let us see something of these others now.

[Sidenote: La Calprenède: his comparative cheerfulness.]

It has seemed, as was said, desirable to follow the common opinion
of literary history in giving Madeleine de Scudéry the place of honour,
and the largest as well as the foremost share in our account of this
curious stage in the history of the novel.

But if, to alter slightly a famous quotation, I might "give a short hint
to an impartial reader," I should very strongly advise him to begin his
studies (or at least his enjoyment) thereof, not with "Sapho," but
with Gauthier de Costes, Seigneur de la Calprenède, himself according
to Tallemant almost the proverbial "Gascon et demi"; a tragic dramatist,
as well as a romantic writer; a favourite of Mme. de Sévigné, who
seldom went wrong in her preferences, except when she preferred her
very disagreeable daughter to her very agreeable son; and more than
any one else the inventor, or at least perfecter, of the hectoring
heroic style which we associate with Dryden's plays. It built sort-a like de 'partment
house. Dey four rooms and each fam'ly have one room. Dey have a lamp and a candle for our comfort.
It jes' a li'l, ord'nary brass lamp. Dey used to make 'em out of wax and tallow. Dey raise
dere own bees and when dey rob de bee gums dey strain de honey and melt de wax with tallow
to make it firmer. Dey tie one end de wick on de stick 'cross de mold and put in de melted
wax and tallow.

"Dey have a table and benches, too. But a chair de rare thing in a cabin. Dey make some with
de split hick'ry or rawhide bottom. Dey have hay mattress. De tickin' am rice sacks. Us have
mud chimney. Dey fix sticks like de ladder and mix mud and moss and grass in what dey calls
'cats'. Dey have rock backs, and, man, us have a sho' 'nough fire in 'em. Put a stick long
as me and big as a porch post in dat fireplace. In cold weather dat last all day and all night.

"When de parents workin' in de field, somebody look after de chillen. De nannies come in and
nuss dem when time come. De white folks never put on 'strictions on de chillen till dey twelve,
fourteen years old. Dey all wear de straight-cut slip. Dey give de li'l gals de slip dress
and li'l panties. In wintertime dey give de boy's de li'l coat and pants and shoes, but no
drawers or unnerwear. Dey give dem hard russet shoes in wintertime. Dey have brass toes. Dey
plenty dur'ble. In summertime us didn't see no shoe.

"Massa Looney jes' as fine de man as ever make tracks. Christmas time come, he give 'em a few
dollars and say go to the store and buy what us want. He give all de li'l nigger chillen gif's,
jes' like he own. He git de jug of whiskey and plenty eggs and make de big eggnog for everybody.
He treat us cullud folks jes' like he treat he own fam'ly. He never take no liquor 'cept at
Christmas. He give us lots to eat at Christmas, too.

"Sometime old missy come out and call all de li'l niggers in de house to play with her chillen.
When us eat us have de tin plate and cup. Dey give us plenty milk and butter and 'taters and
sich. Us all set on de floor and make 'way with dem rations.

"Dey had a li'l church house for de niggers and preachin' in de afternoon, and on into de night
lots of times. Dey have de cullud preacher. He couldn't read. He jes' preach from nat'ral wit
and what he larn from white folks. De whole outfit profess to be Baptis'.

"De marryin' business go through by what massa say. De fellow git de massa's consen'. Massa
mos'ly say yes without waitin', 'cause marryin' mean more niggers for him comin' on. He git
de jedge or preacher to marry dem. Iffen de man live on one plantation and de gal on 'nother,
he have to git de pass to go see her. Dat so de patterrollers not git him.

"De slaves used to have balls and frolics in dey cabins. The correction of this habit will go far toward
reforming an individual's diet in every way.

Thorough mastication means masticating up to the point of involuntary
swallowing.

It does not mean forcibly holding the food in the mouth, counting the chews, or otherwise making
a bore of eating.

It merely means giving up the habit of forcing food down, and applies
to all foods, even to liquid foods, which should be sipped.

[Sidenote: Evils of Insufficient Mastication]

The consequences and evils of insufficient mastication are many, and
may be enumerated as follows: Insufficient use of the teeth and jaws
(and hence dental decay as well as other and worse dental evils); insufficient
saliva mixed with the food (and hence imperfect digestion of the starchy substances);
insufficient subdivision of food by mastication (and hence slow digestion);
the failure of the taste nerves to telegraph ahead, as it were, to the
stomach and other digestive organs an intimation of the kind and amount
of digestive juices required (and hence indigestion); the overseasoning
of food to make it relishable even when bolted (and hence overeating
and irritation of the mucous lining); the excessive use of meat and
eggs and like foods, which can be eaten rapidly with relative impunity,
and the corresponding neglect of other foods, like bread, grains,
vegetables, and salads, which require more mastication (and hence
intestinal poisoning).

[Sidenote: Prolonged Relish of Food]

The habit of insufficient mastication is subtle, because it has become
"second nature" with most of us. To free ourselves of it we must first
of all allow plenty of time for our meals and rid our minds of the thought
of hurry. A boy's school in which the principal is endeavoring to fight the
habit of food-bolting has wisely ordained that no boy may leave the
dining-room until a certain hour, even if he has finished eating long
before. In this way the boy soon learns that there is nothing to be gained
by fast eating, and, in fact, that the pleasantest way of spending
the meal-time is to prolong the relish of the food. It would be well
if all of us would adopt a similar rule for ourselves. Mr. Gladstone did
something of the sort and was noted for the slow mastication of his
food. Latterly Mr. Horace Fletcher set such a rule for himself, and
revived the interest of the public in the subject.

[Sidenote: The First Three Mouthfuls]

At first one must give some conscious attention to his efforts to
reform; but if one will merely attend carefully to the first three
mouthfuls of a meal, the slow pace can often be established for the
rest of the meal without further thought.

[Sidenote: Careful Tasting]

Slow eating is important not merely as a matter of mastication, but also
as a matter of taste and enjoyment. Food must have a pleasing taste and flavor
and then must be enjoyed in order to be most readily assimilated.

[Sidenote: Increased Enjoyment]

There is a mistaken notion that the hygiene of food means "giving up all
the things that taste good."

While it is true that, in many cases, sacrifices have to be made, the net
result of reforming one's diet is not to diminish but to increase the
enjoyment of food.

In general, it is extremely unhygienic to eat foods which are not
relished.

Experiments by Pavlov and others have shown that the taste and enjoyment
of food stimulate the flow of digestive juices.

[Sidenote: Choosing Foods]

Finally, slow eating is a great aid in the proper choice of foods.

Some suggestions have already been given as to the wise choice of foods,
but no rules can be formulated which will completely insure such a choice.
Even the wisest physiologist can not depend altogether on his knowledge
of food values, while, to the layman, the problem is so complicated
that his main reliance must be on his own instincts.

Animals depend exclusively on instinct except when under domestication.
Civilized man should not and can not altogether depend upon instinct, but
his food instincts are far more keen and correct if he obeys the
rule of eating slowly than if he bolts his food.

[Sidenote: "Good" and "Bad"

Foods]

In the choice of foods it is as difficult to distinguish absolutely between
what are "good" and "bad" foods as it is to classify human beings
into "good" and "bad."

All we can say is that some foods are better than others, remembering that it is usually more important
to be satisfied, even if the foods are not "ideal," than to be unsatisfied with what in the abstract seem
"ideal" foods.

Among the best foods for most people are fruits, potatoes, nuts (if
well masticated), milk, sour milk, and vegetables.

Among the worst foods are putrefactive cheeses, sweetbreads, liver, kidneys,
"high" game or poultry.

But a fastidious study of foods will find some faults as well as some
virtues in almost any food.

The best way to help the ordinary man choose his foods is to advise him to use as much as possible of
the "better" and as little as possible of the "worse" without attempting to draw
a hard and fast line between the "good" and "bad."

[Sidenote: Salt, Pepper, Spices]

Salt, pepper, and hot condiments should be used very sparingly, if at all.

[Sidenote: Sugar and Candy]

A great cause of ill health is overuse of sugar in concentrated form,
candy, etc., especially by the sedentary.

One reason why sugar has a high food value is that it is readily
utilized for combustion, and if taken between meals greatly increases
the calories and may lead to overnourishment.

     
     
     [Sidenote: Water with Meals]
     
There is, for normal people, no objection to drinking a moderate amount of
water at meals--say one or two glassfuls--provided it is not taken
when food is in the mouth and used for washing it down.

[Sidenote: The Digestibility of So-called "Indigestible" Foods]

The science of dietetics will develop rapidly in the future, and in a
few years it will probably be possible to be more definite than we
have been here.

At present there is much unknown, especially as to how far our rules
have to be modified for the particular individual. Personal idiosyncrasies
have to be taken into account. Sometimes "What is one man's meat is
another man's poison."

On the other
hand, many have mistaken ideas as to their own idiosyncrasies. For instance, many people think that
nuts never agree with them, when the trouble really is that they do not masticate them properly. Many
think peanuts indigestible, not realizing either the importance of mastication or the importance of avoiding
over-roasting. The ordinary peanuts are over-roasted.

Peanuts very slightly roasted and very thoroughly masticated seldom
disagree with one.

Others believe that bananas never agree with them, when the fact
is they eat them too green.

The banana vender
usually finds that the ignorant public buys his fruit best when its
color is an even yellow, and he puts aside for himself the only bananas
ripe and fit to eat, namely those which are mottled with black.

[Sidenote: Avoidance of Fads]

Each individual must use his own intelligence and common sense, avoiding
so far as he can the mistake of following a "fad" and accepting a
theory without sufficient evidence; and the opposite mistake of accepting
as hygienic the customs about him simply because they are customs,
and thus mistaking for fads any conclusions of science which are discordant
with current custom.

[Sidenote: Necessity of Medical Examination]

It is a good idea to consult a physician in regard to one's diet,
and endeavor intelligently to follow his advice and not insist on
one's own diet, selected from the standpoint of mere self-indulgence
or custom.

Moreover, since many, without being aware of the fact, are affected with
Bright's disease, diabetes, etc., in their early stages, in which
dietetic precautions are especially necessary, it is well, even for
those who are apparently in good health, to be medically examined
as a preliminary to a rearrangement of their diet along the best lines.

CHAPTER III

POISONS

Section I--Constipation

If

the human body be likened to a steam-engine, its wastes correspond to the ashes.

[Sidenote: Retention of Body Wastes]

The injury which comes from the retention of the body's waste products is of the greatest importance.
The intestinal contents become dangerous by being too long retained,
as putrefying fecal matter contains poisons which are harmful to the body. Abnormal
conditions of the intestines are largely responsible for the common
headache malady, and for a generally lowered resistance, resulting in colds
and even more serious ailments. Constipation is extremely prevalent, partly
because our diet usually lacks bulk or other needed constituents, but
partly also because we fail to eliminate regularly, thoroughly, and
often.

Constipation, long continued, is by no means a trifling matter. It represents
a constant and cumulative tax which often ends in very serious consequences.

[Sidenote:
Water-Drinking]

Free water-drinking when the stomach is empty, especially before breakfast,
is beneficial in constipation. Free water-drinking at meals may prove constipating.
Excess of water should be avoided by the very feeble or those suffering from
heart trouble or dropsy.

[Sidenote: Laxative Foods]

The best regulators of the bowels are foods. Foods should possess
sufficient bulk to promote the action of the intestines and should
contain a due amount of laxative elements.

Foods which are especially laxative are prunes, figs, most fruits except bananas, fruit juices, all fresh vegetables,
especially greens of all sorts, wheat, bran, and the whole grain cereals. Oils and fats are also laxative
but can not be used in sufficiently large quantities to produce very laxative effects without producing
loss of appetite. Foods which have the opposite tendency are rice, boiled
milk, fine wheat-flour in bread, corn-starch, white of egg.

[Sidenote: Bran and Agar-Agar]

The use of wheat-bran in cereals,
in bread, and even in vegetables is a preventive of constipation,
as is also the use of agar-agar, a Japanese seaweed product.

This is not digested and absorbed, but acts as a water-carrier and
a sweep to the intestinal tract. It should be taken without admixture
with laxative drugs.

  [Sidenote: Mineral
  
  Oils]

Paraffin oil is especially good as an intestinal lubricant to assist the
food to slip through the intestinal tube at the proper rate of progress,
provided the oil is first freed, by long-continued shaking with water,
from certain dangerous impurities.

  
  
  Many refined preparations
  
  are on the market for use in constipation. Underweight people should
not use these oils unless properly prescribed by a physician.

  
  
  [Sidenote: Avoiding Drugs]
  
  It is advisable, in general, to avoid cathartics except under medical supervision,
since certain drugs are often very harmful when their use is long
continued and the longer they are used the more dependent on them
the user becomes.

Laxative drugs, even mineral waters, should never be used habitually.

[Sidenote: Enemas]

The occasional, but not habitual, use of an enema (with warm water followed
always by a second enema of cool water, to prevent relaxation) is
a temporary expedient.

     
     
     
     
     
     

     

[Sidenote: Massage of the Colon]

Massage of the abdomen, deep and thorough, with a creeping movement
of the ends of the fingers on the left side of the abdomen from above
downward, also promotes the process of defecation.

The normal man and woman should find no difficulty in having complete
movements regularly two or three times a day by merely living a reasonable
life, being careful especially to avoid overfatigue, to include sufficient
bulk in the food, to take regular exercise, including, in particular,
breathing exercises, and to maintain an erect carriage.

[Sidenote: Low Seated Water Closets]

High-seated water closets, so
often found in institutions, hotels and private houses, often favor
constipation, as they do not permit of the proper physiological attitude
in defecation.

They prevent the individual from exercising abdominal pressure so essential for this function.
Such seats should be made much lower than they are, or the feet should
rest on a foot stool, in order to attain the proper attitude for
thorough emptying of the intestine.

[Sidenote: Number of Defecations]

Observations on the manlike apes show that they defecate three or four times a day. Few of the human
family have such ideal movements. Millions are conscious of some shortcoming in this regard, and doubtless
millions more suffer from some shortcomings of which they are not conscious.
Many believe they have free movements when actually they are suffering
from a sluggishness in the rectum and other parts of the lower intestine.
A rectal examination often reveals unsuspected fecal residues.

[Sidenote: Establishing Proper Habits]

The natural instinct to defecate, like many other natural instincts, is usually deadened by failure
to exercise it. Civilized life makes it inconvenient to follow this instinct as promptly as, for instance,
a horse does. The impulse to go to stool, if neglected even five minutes, may disappear. There are
few health measures more simple and effective than restoring the
normal sensitiveness of this important impulse.

It may require a few weeks of special care, during which cold water
enemas at night, following evacuation by paraffin oil injection, may
be needed. It would be an excellent rule to visit the closet immediately
after the noon and evening meals, as faithfully as most people do
after the morning meal, until the reflex is trained to act at those,
the most natural, times for its action.

Before leaving the subject of intestinal poisoning, we may here again mention
the importance of avoiding the poisoning which comes from too much
protein.

This poisoning is probably due largely to the decomposition of protein in the colon.

[Sidenote: Use of Sour Milk]

One proposed method for reducing this decomposition of protein is through
the use of sour milk.

Lactic acid, the acid of sour milk, constitutes
a medium in which putrefactive germs do not thrive. Hence, if sufficient
sour-milk germs can be kept in the intestines to constantly manufacture
lactic acid, putrefaction will be reduced.

But, as Professor Rettger and others have shown, the mere swallowing
of a little sour milk or of sour-milk tablets is seldom sufficient.
The "good germs" swallowed die of starvation before they do much
good.

To keep them alive and enable them to multiply, we must feed them.
The free use of milk and of milk sugar, a little raw starch, or partially
cooked cereal such as Scotch brose (oatmeal cooked only ten minutes)
will feed the germs.

[Sidenote: Evidences of Injury]

The odor and
character of the stools are indicative of the extent to which our
diet is injuring us. The odor is less offensive if the diet is low
in protein and thoroughly masticated.

Section II--Posture

One of
the simplest and most effective methods of avoiding self-poisoning
is by maintaining an erect posture. In an erect posture the abdominal
muscles tend to remain taut and to afford proper support or pressure
to the abdomen, including the great splanchnic circulation of large
blood-vessels. In an habitual slouching posture, the blood of the
abdomen tends to stagnate in the liver and the splanchnic circulation,
causing a feeling of despondency and mental confusion, headache, coldness
of the hands and feet, and chronic fatigue or neurasthenia, and often
constipation.

A slouching attitude is often the result of disease
or lack of vitality; but it is also a cause.

[Sidenote: The "Consumptive
Stoop"]

There is some reason to believe that "the consumptive stoop"
leads to tuberculosis partly through the lowering of resistance resulting
from the poisoning produced by a chronically relaxed abdomen.

Many
persons who have suffered for years from the above-named symptoms
have been relieved of them after a few weeks of correct posture, sometimes
reenforced by the artificial pressure of an abdominal supporter and
by special exercises to strengthen the abdominal muscles.

Lying face
downward with a pillow under the abdomen presses the blood out of
the congested splanchnic circulation.

[Sidenote: Breathing and Posture]

Breathing
exercises are also very useful for correcting the chronic evils of
bad posture. Exercises taken when lying on the back, by raising the
legs or head, strengthen the abdominal muscles. Slow, deep breathing,
through the nose, while lying on the back, with a weight on the abdomen,
such as a bag of sand--2 to 4 lbs.--is beneficial.

[Sidenote: Standing
and Walking]

In walking, the most common error is to slump, with
the shoulders rounded, the stomach thrust out, the head thrust forward,
chin up, and the arms hanging in front of the body.

"I seed sojers but I too li'l to know nothin' 'bout dem. Dey didn't worry me a-tall. I didn't
git close to de battle.

"My mammy weave cloth out cotton and wool. I 'member de loom. It go 'boom-boom-boom.' Dat de
shuttle goin' cross. My daddy, he de smart man. I'll never be like him long as I live in dis
world. He make shoes. He build house. He do anything. He and my mammy neither one ever been
brutalize'.

"De first work I done was raisin' cotton and sugar cane and sweet and Irish 'taters. I used
to cook sugar.

"I marry on twenty-second of February. My wife was Medora Labor. She been dead thirty-five
year now. I never marry no second woman. I love my wife so much I never want nobody else. Us
had six chillen. Two am livin'.

"Goin' back when I a slave, massa have a store. When de priest come dey hold church in dat
store. Old massa have sev'ral boys. Dey went after some de slave gals. Dey have chillen by
dem. Dem gals have dere cabins and dere chillen, what am half white.

"After while dem boys marry. But dey allus treat dey chillen by de slave womens good. Dey white
wife treat dem good, too, most like dey dere own chillen.

"Old massa have plenty money. Land am only two bits de acre. Some places it cost nothing. Dey
did haulin' in ox-carts. A man what had mules had something extra. 

He did so, and carried the ship after an engagement of three hours. She mounted sixteen guns, carried
a crew of sixty men, and was, moreover, richly laden with specie,
jewels, and merchandise.

Shortly after another vessel was taken, when on her voyage to Hispaniola to pay the troops. This
was a valuable capture, the prize being laden with arms and ammunition as well as specie. The
prize vessels were sent into Tortuga, where they were unladen; and
one of them was immediately armed and sent back to join the main squadron
as the flagship.

Their marine thus augmented, they sailed first into the Bay of Venerada, the fort guarding the
entrance to which was taken, the guns spiked, and the garrison, numbering two hundred and fifty
men, put to the sword. The pirates next sailed into the Lake of Maracaibo, landed their forces,
and proceeded at once to attack the castle that guarded the entrance
to the harbor.

The governor had made judicious dispositions for its defence, having formed an ambuscade for the
purpose of bringing the pirates between two fires. His design, however, in this respect, was
frustrated, for those forming the ambuscade, being discovered and routed, fled to the town, the
inhabitants of which, remembering the former visitation of the pirates,
deserted in wild consternation, and fell back upon Gibraltar, thirty
leagues distant.

Meantime the pirates, though armed with swords and pistols only,
attacked the castle with such impetuosity as to compel its capitulation.

     The slaughter was great. After the surrender the guns were spiked,
     and the castle demolished. The next day the invaders advanced upon
     the town, which they found desolate. It was well stored with provisions,
     but all the valuables had been removed or buried. Lolonois demanded
     information of the prisoners where the plate, jewels, and money
     were concealed, and attempts were made to extort confessions by the
rack, but to little purpose.

He then hacked one of the prisoners to pieces with his sword, declaring that such should be
the fate of all, unless the hidden treasures of the town should be forthcoming. But the poor
wretches were unable to give the information, as the owners had fled as best they could, changing
their own hiding places, and taking away their valuables.

Having remained fifteen days in Maracaibo, and supposing that the people had carried their treasures
with them to Gibraltar, Lolonois determined to sail to that town. The deputy governor, however,
without the knowledge of the pirates, had made vigorous preparations for its defence; and accordingly,
on their arrival in sight of the town, they unexpectedly discovered
the royal standard floating from two strong batteries guarding a very
narrow channel through which the pirate squadron must pass.

A council of war was called, at which, after a spirited speech from Lolonois, it was agreed
to land and carry the works by storm--the leader declaring that he would pistol any man who
should flinch, with his own hand. The Spanish forces numbered eight
hundred men, well appointed; but nothing could daunt the resolution
of the pirates.

The Spaniards conducted themselves bravely; and not until five hundred of their number had
fallen did they yield. The buccaneers had eighty killed and wounded, not one of the latter recovering--an
evidence of the desperation with which they fought. The town of Gibraltar, of course, fell into
their hands; but it was a bootless conquest, inasmuch as during the time the pirates had wasted
at Maracaibo, the people had secured their treasure by carrying it away. To save the town
from the torch, however, the inhabitants paid a ransom of ten thousand pieces of eight, yet not until
a portion of it had been burned. After spending two months on shore, the buccaneers reëmbarked,
carrying away all the crosses, pictures, and bells of the churches,
for the purpose, as they alleged, of erecting a chapel in the island
of Tortuga, to which pious object a portion of the spoils was to be
consecrated!

The amount of their booty, during their expedition, was two hundred and sixty thousand pieces
of eight, together with vast quantities of plate, jewels, and merchandise--most of which was soon
dissipated, after their return, in debauchery, and other rude pleasures
of such a ruffian race.

The next exploit of Lolonois was the capture, in the mouth of the Guatemala
river, of a Spanish ship, carrying forty-two guns, and manned by one
hundred and thirty fighting men; the pirate carrying only twenty-two
guns, and being attended by a single small vessel.

The Spaniard made a good defence, and the pirate chief was at first repulsed. Yet afterward,
under cover of a thick mist, rendered more dense by the smoke of the powder, the pirates boarded
the Spaniard from their small craft, and bravely accomplished their
purpose.

The career of this desperado was soon to come to an end. Shortly after
this last exploit, while cruising in the Bay of Honduras, his own
ship was wrecked, and he, together with his crew, were thrown upon
an island. But de trouble with most niggers, dey never done no
managin' and didn't know how. De niggers suffered from de war, iffen dey did git freedom from it.

"I's already married de slave way in Mobile and had three chillen. My husband died 'fore war
am over and I marries Las Gilmore and never has no more chillen. I has no livin' kinfolks I
knows of. When we come here Las done any work he could git and bought this li'l house, but
I can't pay taxes on it, but, sho', de white folks won't put me out. I done git my leg cut
off in a train wreck, so I can't work, and I's too old, noways. I don't has no idea how old I is.

420245

     ANDREW GOODMAN, 97, was born a slave of the Goodman family, near
     Birmingham, Alabama. His master moved to Smith County, Texas, when
     Andrew was three years old. Andrew is a frail, kindly old man, who
     lives in his memories. He lives at 2607 Canton St., Dallas, Texas.

"I was born in slavery and I think them days was better for the niggers than the days we see
now. One thing was, I never was cold and hongry when my old master lived, and I has been plenty
hongry and cold a lot of times since he is gone. But sometimes I think Marse Goodman was the
bestes' man Gawd made in a long time.

"My mother, Martha Goodman, 'longed to Marse Bob Goodman when she was born, but my paw come
from Tennessee and Marse Bob heired him from some of his kinfolks what died over there. The
Goodmans must have been fine folks all-a-way round, 'cause my paw said them that raised him
was good to they niggers. 

During the time I was with the Germans they treated me with every
consideration.

Food was scarce, owing to the fact that the roads were so well shelled
by our artillery that their transport could not come up; but they
shared their food with me.

They also dressed my wound with the greatest care, and in every way made me as comfortable as possible.
Being able to speak a little German, I talked to the other wounded, and found that their papers
also published dreadful tales of our treatment of prisoners, which
I am glad to say I was able to refute.

I am, Sir, yours faithfully, A BRITISH OFFICER.

December 27.

I would especially call the attention of fair-minded men to the last
sentences.

Here is a letter written by Second-Lieut. F. Phillips Pearce (aged
18) of the 2nd Essex Regiment, from Crefeld on October 27, and printed
in the Times of November 19, 1914:

We are treated very well indeed
here.

We have good beds and fires in the rooms, three good meals a day, and
a French soldier for a servant, and this morning I had a splendid hot
bath. We have roll call twice a day, at 8 a.m. and 9.45 p.m., and lights
out at 10.45, and we have a large courtyard to walk about in.

We have a canteen here where we can buy clothes and anything we want.
Prison fare is very good—new rolls and coffee and fresh butter.
Not bad!

I had a very decent guard when I was coming up on the train; he got me food, and when one man
tried to get in to attack me he threw him off the train. I am afraid I am out of the firing line until
the war ends (worse luck). I am in no danger of being shot unless I try to bolt, which I shan’t
do. I shot the man who was carrying their colours, and he wanted to have me shot, but luckily
nobody seemed to agree with him. The next time I saw him he had been
bandaged up—he was shot through the shoulder—and he dashed up and shook
me by the hand and shouted, “Mein Freund, mein Freund.”

On November 25 other letters appeared in the Times.

One was from a cavalry subaltern in a German fortress:

You ask about
money; they provide lights and firing and all the men’s food.

The officers get 16s. a week and buy their own. Quite sufficient, as it is
cheap. I have learnt German fairly quickly and do interpreter now in the shop
for the men, though, I am afraid, tant mal que bien. One of the officials
here used to be a professor, and is very kind trying to teach us. Thanks for the warm underclothes,
and most awfully for the footballs. We have quite good matches....
It is better not to try to send any public news of any kind from England;
people having been stupid trying to smuggle letters in cakes and
things, and it only makes trouble for everyone.

A Captain writes:

For dinner at 1 p.m. we are given soup, meat and
vegetables.... Supper takes place at 7 o’clock and consists of tea,
sausages or meat and potatoes.... We receive £5 a month as pay, of
which 1s.

6d. is deducted for food each day.

We have a canteen here at which we can buy everything we want, ... so there
is no need to send me anything at all, except perhaps those small
7d. editions of novels.

An English lady wrote early in 1915 from Munich:

I must tell you I had permission to visit a wounded English officer,
a cousin, and I think it would reassure many people at home to know
how warmly he speaks of the great kindness that has been shown him
now for five months, as well as the skill and attention of the doctors.—(Times,
March 17, 1915.)

Here, too, is a letter from Lieut.-Observer J. E. P. Harvey, an officer
of the Bedfordshire Yeomanry, and attached to the Royal Flying Corps:

I
met one of the pilots of the German machines that had attacked us.

He could speak English well and we shook hands after a most thrilling
fight.

I had brought down his machine with my machine-gun, and he had to land
quite close to where I landed. He had a bullet through his radiator
and petrol tank, but neither he nor his observer was touched. I met
two German officers that knew several people that I knew, and they were most awfully
kind to me.

They gave me a very good dinner of champagne and oysters,
etc., and I was treated like an honoured guest. I then came by train
the next day to Mainz, where I was confined in a room by myself for
two days. I have now been moved into a general room with eight other
English officers, where we sleep and eat. We are treated very well,
and play hockey and tennis in the prison yard.—(News of the World, February
27, 1916.)

Miss Colenso gives the following account, which appeared
in the Daily News of June 28, 1918:

A minister friend of mine told me the story of a young Scottish boy of his
acquaintance, now a military prisoner in Germany—I forget for the moment
in which camp. This boy received a letter from home one day telling
of his mother’s serious illness and the doctor’s verdict that she could
only live a few weeks. The German Commandant, finding the boy in great
distress, asked him what was the matter, and on learning the cause
of his grief, said: “Would you like to go home to your mother?” The
boy sprang up, exclaiming indignantly, “How can you mock me when you
know it is impossible?” “But you shall go, my boy,” said the commandant.

“I will pay your return fare on condition that you give me your word of
honour to come back here.” The boy went home to Scotland and remained
by his mother’s side for about three weeks till her death, when, true
to his word, he returned to Germany.

The writer of “Under the Clock” considers that “well-attested” stories
of this kind should be given publicity.

It is even more necessary to examine the “attestation” of the other kinds
of stories, for all the bias is against the enemy, and demand is
apt to create supply.

MERSEBURG, DŒBERITZ.

I pass on now to a report made by a United States Official. The American Consul writes from Leipzig under
date of November 16, 1914: “On Saturday afternoon, the 14th instant, I visited the military concentration
camp near Merseburg, where some 10,000 prisoners of war are interned. The object of my visit was to
investigate the claim of a French prisoner that he is an American
subject. The result of my observations regarding the welfare and humane
treatment of the prisoners at large was a surprise to me.... Separated
by nationality, these prisoners are housed in wooden buildings, well
built, ventilated and heated.... They sleep upon straw mattresses
in well-warmed quarters, and, as far as I could judge, are as well
or better housed than labourers upon public works in the United States.

The prisoners are fed three times a day. Breakfast consists of coffee
and bread.

Dinner consists of vegetable and meat, soup
and bread, and for supper they are given bread and coffee. I was informed
that many of the prisoners have some money, and that they are allowed
to buy whatever else they may wish to eat.

If I may judge from the mounds of empty beer bottles at hand, there
is evidence in support of this statement. The prisoners appeared
to be in good health and cheerful, many of them engaging in games
and other pastimes.”

The diet described must be frightfully monotonous. Feeding has throughout been one of the German
difficulties. “Germany claims to hold 433,000 prisoners of war,” wrote
an anonymous American journalist (probably in November, 1914); “the
housing and feeding of so great a number must be a tremendous strain
upon resources drained by the necessities of war.” The numbers must
now exceed two million.

The Press article referred to [Misc. No. 7 (1915)] is severe on the
misery of camp life, and the verminousness of the men (they were of mixed
nationality) in the camp at Döberitz which he visited. (See, however,
the further official reports quoted below at p. 9).

But the writer does not confine his condemnation to one side. “One hears of battles in which no quarter
is granted. There are stories of one side or the other refusing an
armistice to permit the other to gather its wounded. Each side is desperately
determined to win, and neither is counting the cost.

So men must rust in prison camps until the struggle is over.” The
monotony in this case seems to have been varied by fights between
the prisoners of different nationality, each set considering that
the others had not done their part in the war.

We need not be contemptuous about that.

The monotony of the prisoners’ life must tend to produce the maximum
degree of mutual friction. There is absolutely no privacy for the prisoner
of war. To be forced to remain, day and night, for months and years
in idleness, with a crowd of others, not of one’s own choice is,
I believe, one of the psychological factors which make internment
(especially to many civilians) decidedly worse than imprisonment in
a criminal prison.

CORRESPONDENCE AND PACKAGES.

My next document illustrates the fact that each side makes similar complaints
about the other. Telegram received by American Embassy, London, December 23,
1914, 22nd from Berlin Embassy:

“Foreign Office reports receiving many complaints that money and packages
sent German military and civilian prisoners in enemy countries from
Germany do not reach addresses.

Please secure information for Department to forward German Foreign Office whether money and other
postal matter will be delivered to such prisoners promptly and intact.—BRYAN, Washington.”

There is no doubt that many letters and parcels have not reached German
prisoners in England.

Lord Robert Cecil has fully allowed this. (Times report. March 11, 1915.) In spite of this, I
have no doubt that the British authorities have done their best to
expedite delivery. I would suggest that this is probably the case on the
other side, too. We shall indeed later come upon some definite statements
in support of this view. One frequent cause of the non-arrival of parcels
in Germany has been convincingly described by Mr. Ian Malcolm, M.P.
(Daily Mail, November 8, 1916, and Reprint):

I did not approach this subject quite “new to the game.” I had already
visited general post offices in England, Switzerland and elsewhere,
and had seen thousands, literally thousands, of food parcels intended
for our prisoners of war in Germany falling to bits and incapable of being
forwarded for want of skilled packing. The sight was enough to make
angels weep.

To think that so much self-sacrifice had been exercised in humble homes
to save up bits of dripping, crusts of bread, broken cigarettes,
and what not, in order that these should reach son or brother or sweetheart
in Germany, yet packed so badly albeit by loving hands, that in the
first rough and tumble of the post the paper burst, the string came
undone, and the contents of a dozen parcels fell in an inextricable
jumble upon the floor.

There will unfortunately, too, be those in every land who will take opportunities
for mean thefts. We have all had experience of that during this war,
and the following cutting from the Daily News of October 5, 1915, may
be given in illustration:

In a letter of thanks to the secretary of the committee of the Elswick and
Scotswood workmen, formed for the purpose of sending comforts to
the troops, Sir Ian Hamilton says:

I am extremely touched by the extraordinary generosity and kindness of
the Elswick and Scotswood workmen.

I will take great care to let our soldiers know to whom they are indebted
for this most handsome contribution.

Pray heaven the parcels will escape thieves and scoundrels who waylaid some of
the gifts, and will arrive in good condition.

If there are, alas, not a few men who will steal from their comrades, there are not likely to be fewer who
will steal from their enemies.

Speaking generally, however, the delivery of parcels on both sides soon became
commendably regular.

The care shown on the German side is warmly praised by Captain Gilbert
Nobbs, who remained quite able to appreciate good deeds even after
enduring terrible hardships and hearing worse stories from others. The
bad deeds of war, soldiers are able to judge better than civilians.
In his book “Englishman, Kamerad,” Captain Nobbs writes:

I was very
much impressed with the fair and systematic handling of our parcels,
letters and money; even letters and postcards which arrived for me
after I had been sent back to England, were re-addressed and sent
back.

     A remittance
     
     of five pounds which arrived for me after I
     
     had left was even returned to me in England, instead of being applied
to the pressing need of the German War Loan.—(Daily News, January
25, 1918.)

An acquaintance of my own, a lecturer in a technical school,
spoke to me to the same effect.
     

He told me, as an illustration, of a parcel sent to him which had become quite shattered in transit
(p.p. 7). The Germans transferred the contents to a sack, and, as
he said, the temptation to pilfer the sorely-needed foodstuffs must
have been great. My informant also spoke of the very thorough inoculation
against disease.

ALTDAMM.

On December 31, 1914, Mr. Damm reported to Mr. Gerard on the Camp
at Altdamm near Stettin.

The general arrangement, he remarks, is the same as that of the camp at Stargard
on which he had reported previously.

“It appears to me that every effort is being made to treat the prisoners
of war as humanely as possible in the two camps I visited.

Dry and warm shelter is provided, the food is simple and perhaps monotonous,
but of good material and well prepared, sanitary arrangements are good,
and the health of the men is carefully looked after.”

RUMOURS V. INSPECTION.

But the general inspection of all camps had not yet been agreed to by
the German Government, and on February 23, 1915, Sir Edward Grey
wrote to Mr. Page (the American Ambassador in London) complaining
that no definite replies to his questions were forthcoming.

“His Majesty’s Government,” he continues, “have only unofficial information
and rumours on the subject to guide them, which they trust do not
accurately represent the facts.” The “unofficial information and rumours”
had, however, attained wide publicity, and obtained still more later.

The German authorities agreed on March 17, 1915, to general inspection
of detention camps and consideration of complaints.

The reports now to be cited were made after this date. [Misc. 11
(1915)].

I propose to give examples of almost all the earlier reports, for it was in the earlier stages of the war that
there was most difficulty everywhere in providing accommodation for prisoners. We ought not to
forget that the earliest reports on our own camps which the British Government
have published begin with February, 1916.[2]

DŒBERITZ.

On March 31 Mr. Jackson reported on the camp at Döberitz, a large
camp with between three and four thousand British prisoners.

“So far as I could ascertain, British soldiers are called
upon to do only their share in fatigue work.... So far as I could ascertain,
after inquiry of a number of men, nothing was known as to the stopping of
either incoming or outgoing correspondence.... The camp at Döberitz is in a
healthy location, and the barracks are new and of a permanent character....
They are at least as good as those used by the Germans at present
in the same neighbourhood.

As was to be expected a number of men had individual grievances, but there
were no general complaints, except with regard to the German character of the food—and
those were the exact counterparts of complaints made to me by German prisoners
in England.” I have italicised the last clause as it will surely, to a fair-minded
man, seem a somewhat important one.

Mr. Lithgow Osborne visited the camp at the same time. He says:

Until two weeks ago the Russians and English were, in cases, housed
together—a source of complaint to the latter, more especially on account
of vermin.

The races have now been separated. The men
all stated that they had the two blankets and the other requisites provided
in the German rules, and I heard but one complaint about overcrowding. Most
of the English and French receive clothes from home. All the prisoners
who do not, are furnished from the camp supply; the men stated that
this was carried out according to the rules.

No complaints whatever were made regarding the Commandant, the non-commissioned
officers, or the general government of the camp.

The food was the source of the few real complaints that could be heard, although
at least half of the men spoken to admitted that it was quite as good as could
possibly be expected.

The impression of the whole was excellent, and one received the idea
that everything that could reasonably be expected was done for the men
by the authorities in charge.

THREE POOR CAMPS.

Mr. Jackson’s reports on Burg bei Magdeburg, Magdeburg and Halle a/d
Saale are the most unfavourable.

They
were all small officers’ camps, Burg containing 75, Magdeburg 30, Halle
50 British officers. There were a few orderlies at each camp.

The chief points are inadequate ventilation, inadequate service for
officers and, in the first two, the fact that living rooms were used
for all purposes, there being no special mess or recreation rooms.

There seemed, however, to be no discrimination
against the British.

GŒTTINGEN.

Mr. Page himself reports on Göttingen, where there were about 6,000
prisoners. “The Camp Commandant, Colonel Bogen, has done everything
possible to make this a model camp, and he has accomplished a great
work. The only complaint is as to the food, the quantity of which, of
course, is not under the control of the Commandant, as he is limited
to an expenditure of only 60 pfennigs (about 7d.) per day per man.

“Everything was in the most beautiful order. There was a very fine steam
laundry and drying room, bath rooms, with hot and cold showers, and the closets,
etc., are in a very good condition and scientifically built. There
is running water and electricity in the camp.

A French barrister of Arras, named Léon Paillet, who was working with
the French Red Cross and who, for some reason or other, has been
made a prisoner, has done marvellous work in organising libraries,
etc.

“I am pleased to say that the professors and pastors in Göttingen
have, from the first, taken an interest in this camp, and Professor
Stange has done much in helping the lot of the prisoners.

The Y.M.C.A. building, erected through the efforts of Mr. A. C. Harte,
who for a number of years has been working with the Y.M.C.A. in India,
will be a great help to the men in the camp.

“At the opening ceremonies there were speeches by Colonel Bogen, Mr.
Harte, and Professor Stange, and then each speech was delivered in
English and French by prisoners.

These were followed by short speeches by French, English, and Belgian
prisoners.

Then came a concert by the camp orchestra and the camp singing society,
followed by songs and recitations by various prisoners.”

Dr. Ohnesorg reported further on April 22. At that time there were 6,577
prisoners, of whom 1,586 were British. He warmly commends the steam
laundry, the steam disinfecting plant, and the hospital.

“A spirit of contentment pervaded the camp. The British prisoners were
well clothed. I tasted the evening meal, consisting of a vegetable soup,
which was very palatable and, I should say, nourishing.... The citizens
of Göttingen have taken a great interest in the camp, and some of them,
notably Professor Stange, of the University, have given a great deal
of their time to the welfare of prisoners and the formation of classes
for study amongst them.”

GERMAN HELP FOR PRISONERS.

The interest taken by prominent Germans in the welfare of prisoners of
war is little recognised in this country.

The Berlin Committee (of which more will be said later) has
received considerable support. At the end of June, 1916, a meeting
in support of its work was held at the house of Prince Lichnowsky,
former Ambassador in London, who returned specially from the front
to preside.

The Bishop of Winchester, writing in the Times, tells us that many
notable men and women were present, and that at the meeting a collection
of 8,000 marks (about £400) was made.

COLOGNE.

Mr. Michelson visited in April, 1915, the three Cologne hospitals in
which wounded British prisoners are lying. He reports as follows:

These institutions are so typical of large, modern, well ordered hospitals
that little need be said of their employment or management. They are provided
with all the machinery and paraphernalia usual to surgical work on
a large scale, contain all standard and necessary conveniences and
fittings, afford to patients a maximum of protection in the matter
of sanitation, quiet and relief from preventable irritation, and are
conducted in a thoroughly scientific, professional and humane way.

The names of the 49 wounded British prisoners are hereunto annexed. I
personally spoke to every one of these men, and with many of them
I conversed privately and without being overheard.

With but one exception no English-speaking British prisoner had any
complaint to make, and a number of the British prisoners eagerly
expressed to me their appreciation for the care and attention given
them.

The physical condition of the Indians is particularly good. Only 21
deaths have occurred among the 1,000 wounded cared for in hospital
No. VI. since the war began, and the death rate in the other two hospitals
is correspondingly low. The physicians in charge consider the rate
to be somewhat remarkable in view of the many grave injuries treated.

In
closing I may say that there is no discrimination or segregation among
the patients and that certain French patients with whom I spoke expressed,
likewise, their appreciation for the care and attention given them. When the Ku Klux Klan
     became active, the "orphan chillen" were taken to Little Rock, Ark.
     Later on, Green moved to Del Rio, Texas, where he now lives.

"I was bo'ned in Arkansas. Frank Marks was my father and Mary Ann Marks my mother. She was
bo'n on the plantation. I had two brothers.

"I don' 'member de quarters, but dey mus' of had plenty, 'cause dey was two, three thousand
slaves on de plantation. All my kin people belonged to Massa Mobley. My grandfather was a millman
and dey had one de bigges' grist mills in de country.

"Our Massa was good and we had plenty for to eat. Dere was no jail for slaves on our place
but not far from dere was a jail.

"De Ku Klux Klan made everything pretty squally, so dey taken de orphan chillen to Little Rock
and kep' 'em two, three years. Dere was lots of slaves in dat country 'round Rob Roy and Free
Nigger Bend. Old Churchill, who used to be governor, had a plantation in dere.

"When I was nine years ol' dey had de Bruce and Baxter revolution. 'Twas more runnin' dan fightin'.
Bruce was 'lected for governor but Baxter said he'd be governor if he had to run Brooks into
de sea.

"My young Massa, Jack Mobley, was killed in de war, is how I come to be one of de orphan chillen.

"While us orphan chillen was at Little Rock dere come a terrible soreness of de eyes. I heard
tell 'twas caused from de cholera. Every little child had to take turns about sittin' by de
babies or totin' them. I was so blind, my eyes was so sore, I couldn't see. The doctor's wife
was working with us. She was tryin' to figure up a cure for our sore eyes, first using one
remedy and den another. Feb. 20--Jerusalem authorities are ordered to guard non-Moslems as a result of
intervention of United States Ambassador Morgenthau.

Feb. 21--More reserves are called out; bitterness toward Germans is
being expressed in Syria.

Feb. 27--At a Cabinet Council in Constantinople it was decided to
transfer the seat of Government to Broussa in Asia Minor.

UNITED STATES.

Feb. 2--Werner Horn, a German, tries to blow up the Canadian Pacific Railroad bridge over the St. Croix
River between Vanceboro, Me., and New Brunswick; attempt is a failure,
bridge being only slightly damaged; he is arrested in Maine; Canada
asks for his extradition.

Feb. 5--Horn sentenced to jail for thirty days on the technical charge
of injuring property, several windows in Vanceboro having been broken
by the explosion.

Feb. 24--R.P. Stegler, a German naval reservist, confesses to Federal
authorities in New York, when arrested, details of alleged passport frauds
by which German spies travel as American citizens, and charges that
Capt. Boy-Ed, German Naval Attaché at Washington, is involved; Federal
Grand Jury in Boston begins inquiry to determine whether Horn violated
law regulating interstate transportation of explosives.

Feb. 25--Capt. Boy-Ed denies the truth of statements made by Stegler
involving him; Stegler is held for alleged obtaining of a United States
passport by fraud; two other men under arrest.

Feb. 28--German Embassy at Washington issues a statement characterizing
Stegler's allegations about Capt. Boy-Ed as "false and fantastic,"
and "of a pathological character," and hinting at attempted blackmail.

RELIEF WORK.

Feb. 2--It is planned to send a Belgian relief ship
with supplies donated wholly by the people of New York State; France
facilitates entry of tobacco sent by Americans as gift to French soldiers;
organization is formed in New York called the War Relief Clearing
House for France and Her Allies to systematize shipment of supplies. Grandmother used herbs fo' medicine--black snake
root, sasparilla, blackberry briar roots--and nearly all de young'uns she fooled with she save
from diarrhea.

"My old masta was good, but when he found you shoutin' he burnt your hand. My grandmother said
he burnt her hand several times. Masta wouldn't let de cullud folks have meetin', but dey would
go out in de woods in secret to pray and preach and shout.

"I jist picked up enough readin' to read my bible and scratch my name. I went to school one
mo'ning and didn't git along wid de teacher so I didn't go no mo'.

"I 'member my folks had big times come Christmas. Dey never did work on Sundays, jist set around
and rest. Dey never worked in bad weather. Dey never did go to de field till seven o'clock.

"I married in 1919. I have two step-daughters and one step-son. My step-son lives in San Antonio.
I have six step-grandchillen. I was a member of de Baptist church befo' you was bo'n, lady.

420394

Dibble, Fred Beaumont, Jefferson Co. Dist. The book ends with a fine vision of the latter days, when the dispersed of Judah
will be restored to their own land, and rejoice in the omnipotent
love of their God, iii.

     14-20.

The
     
     prophecy presents a very impressive picture of the day of Jehovah, but it
     cannot all be from the pen of Zephaniah. Besides adopting a very different
     attitude towards Jerusalem from the rest of the prophecy, iii. 14-20 clearly
     presupposes the exile, v. 19, towards the end of which it was probably
     written. Ch. ii. 11, iii. 9, 10, containing ideas which are hardly
     earlier than Deutero-Isaiah, are also probably exilic or post-exilic.
     The oracle against Moab and Ammon, ii. 8-10, countries which
     lay off the line of the Scythian
     
     march southwards from Philistia, v. 7, to Egypt, v. 12, are for
linguistic, contextual, and other reasons, also probably late.

Prophecy has practically always an historical occasion, and the thought of the black and terrible
day of Jehovah was no doubt suggested to Zephaniah by the formidable bands of roving Scythians which
scoured Western Asia about this time, sweeping all before them (Hdt. i. 105). They do not
seem to have touched Judah; but it is not surprising that men like Jeremiah and Zephaniah should
have regarded them as divinely ordained ministers of vengeance upon
Jehovah's degenerate people.

HAGGAI

The post-exilic age sharply distinguished itself from the pre-exilic
(Zech. i. 4), and nowhere is the difference more obvious than in prophecy.

Post-exilic prophecy has little of the literary or moral power of earlier prophecy, but it would be
very easy to do less than justice to Haggai. His prophecy is very short; into two chapters is condensed
a summary, probably not even in his own words, of no less than four addresses. Meagre as they may seem
to us, they produced a great effect on those who heard them.

The addresses were delivered between September and December in the
year 520 B.C. The people were suffering from a drought, and in the
first address, i. 1-11, Haggai interprets this as a penalty for their
indifference to religion--in particular, for their neglect to build
the temple.

The effect of the appeal was that three weeks afterwards a beginning was made upon the building, i. 12-15.
The people, however, seem to be discouraged by the scantiness of their resources, and a month afterwards Haggai
has to appeal to them again, reminding them that with the silver
and the gold, which are His, Jehovah will soon make the new temple
more glorious than the old, ii.

1-9. Two months later the prophet again reminds them that, as their
former unholy indifference had infected all their life with failure,
so loyal devotion to the work now would ensure success and blessing,
ii.

10-19; and on the same day Haggai assures Zerubbabel a unique place in
the Messianic kingdom which is soon to be ushered in, ii. 20-23.

The appeals of Haggai and Zechariah were successful (Ezra v. 1, vi.
14), and within four years the temple was rebuilt (Ezra vi. 15).

It was now the centre of national life, and therefore also of prophetic
interest.

  Haggai was probably not himself a
  priest, but in so short a prophecy his elaborate allusion to ritual
is very significant, ii. 11ff. This prophecy, like pre-exilic prophecy,
was no doubt conditioned by the historical situation.

The allusion to the shaking of the world in ii. 7, 22, appears to be a reflection of the insurrections
which broke out all over the Persian empire on the accession of Darius
to the throne in 521 B.C.; and probably the Jews were encouraged
by the general commotion to make a bold bid for the re-establishment
of an independent national life.

That they cherished the ambition of being once more a political as
well as a religious force, seems to be suggested by the frequency with
which Haggai links the name of Zerubbabel, of the royal line of Judah,
with that of Joshua the high priest; and, in particular, by the extraordinary
language applied to him--in ii.

     
     23 he is the elect of Jehovah,
     
     His servant and signet. Clearly he is to be king in the Messianic kingdom
which is to issue out of the convulsion of the world.

It cannot be safely inferred from ii.

3 that Haggai was among those who had seen the temple of Solomon
and was therefore a very old man.

Simple as are his words, his faith is strong and his hope very bold. Considering the meagre resources
of the post-exilic community, it is touching to note the confidence
with which he assures the people that Jehovah will bring together the treasures
of the world to make His temple glorious.

ZECHARIAH

  CHAPTERS I-VIII
  
  Two months after Haggai had delivered his first
  address to the people in 520 B.C., and a little over a month after the building of
the temple had begun (Hag. i. 15), Zechariah appeared with another message of
encouragement.

  How much it was needed we see from the popular
  despondency reflected in Hag. ii. 3, Jerusalem
  is still disconsolate (Zech. i. 17), there has been fasting and
mourning, vii. 5, the city is without walls, ii. 5, the population
scanty, ii.
  

4, and most of the people are middle-aged, few old or young, viii. 4, 5. The message they need is one
of consolation and encouragement, and that is precisely the message that Zechariah brings: "I have determined
in these days to do good to Jerusalem and to the house of Judah;
fear not," viii.

15.

The message of Zechariah comes in the peculiar form of visions, some
of them resting apparently on Babylonian art, and not always easy
to interpret.

After an earnest call to repentance, i. 1-6, the visions begin, i. 7-vi.
8.

     In the first vision,
     
     
     
     i. 7-17, the earth, which has been troubled, is at rest; the advent of the
     Messianic age may therefore be expected soon. The divine promise is
given that Jerusalem shall be graciously dealt with and the temple rebuilt.
The second is a vision, i. 18-21, of the annihilation of the heathen world
represented by four horns. The third vision (ii.)--that of a young man
with a measuring-rod--announces that Jerusalem will be wide and populous,
the exiles will return to it, and Jehovah will make His abode there.

These first three visions have to do, in the main, with the city and
the people; the next two deal more specifically with the leaders of
the restored community on its civil and religious side, Zerubbabel
the prince and Joshua the priest.

In the fourth vision (iii.) Joshua is accused by the Adversary and
the accuser is rebuked--symbolic picture of the misery of the community
and its imminent redemption.

Joshua is to have full charge of the temple, and he and his priests
are the guarantee that the Branch, i.e. the Messianic king (Jer. xxiii.

5, xxxiii, 15), no doubt Zerubbabel (Zech, iii. 8, vi. 12; Hag. ii. 23), is
coming. In the fifth vision (iv.)[1] the prophet sees a lampstand with seven
lamps and an olive tree on either side, the trees representing the two
anointed leaders, Zerubbabel and Joshua, enjoying the divine protection.

[Footnote 1: Except vv. 6b-10a, which appears to be a special assurance,
hardly here in place, that Zerubbabel would finish the temple which he
had begun.]

The next two visions elaborate the promise of iii.

9: "I will remove the iniquity of that land,"--and indicate the removal
of all that taints the land of Judah, alike sin and sinners. The flying
roll of the sixth vision, v. 1-4, carries the curse that will fall upon
thieves and perjurers; and in the somewhat grotesque figure of the seventh
vision, v. 5-11, Sin is personified as a woman and borne away in a
closed cask by two women with wings like storks, to the land of Shinar,
i.e. Babylon, there to work upon the enemy of Judah the ruin she has
worked for Judah herself.

In the last vision, vi. 1-8, which is correlate with the first--four
chariots issuing from between two mountains of brass--the divine
judgment is represented as being executed upon the north country,
i.e. the country opposed to God, and particularly Babylonia.

The cumulative effect of the visions is very great. All that hinders the coming of the Messianic days
is to be removed, whether it be the great alien world powers or the sinners within Jerusalem itself. The purified
city will be blessed with prosperity of every kind, and over her civil and religious affairs
will be two leaders, who enjoy a unique measure of the divine favour.
In an appendix to the visions vi. 9-15, Zechariah is divinely commissioned
to make a crown for Zerubbabel (or for him and Joshua)[1] out of the gold
and silver brought by emissaries of the Babylonian Jews, and the
hope is expressed that peace will prevail between the leaders--a hope
through which we may perhaps read a growing rivalry.

[Footnote 1: It seems practically certain that the original prophecy
in v. 11 has been subsequently modified, doubtless because it was not
fulfilled. The last clause of v. 13--"the counsel of peace shall
be between them both"--shows that two persons have just been mentioned.

  The preceding clause must therefore be translated, not as in A. V.
and R. V., "and he shall be a priest upon his throne," as if the office
of king and priest were to be combined in a single person, but "and
there shall be"

(or, as Wellhausen
  suggests, "and Joshua shall be") "a priest upon his throne,"
  (or no doubt more correctly, with the Septuagint,
  "a priest at his right hand").

As two persons are involved, and the word "crowns" in v. 11 is in
the plural, it has been supposed that the verse originally read, "set
the crowns upon the head of Zerubbabel and upon the head of Joshua."

On the other hand, in v. 14 the word "crown" must be read in the
singular, and should probably also be so read in v. 11 (though even
the plural could refer to one crown).

In that case, if there be but one crown, who wears it? Undoubtedly Zerubbabel:
he is the Branch, iii. 8, and the Branch is the Davidic king (Jer.
xxiii. 5, xxxiii. 15).

The building of the temple here assigned to the Branch, vi. 12, is
elsewhere expressly assigned to Zerubbabel, iv.

9. It is, therefore, he who is crowned: in other words, v. 11, may have originally read, "set it upon the head
of Zerubbabel."

Whether we accept this solution or the other, it seems certain that
the original prophecy contemplated the crowning of Zerubbabel.

As the hopes that centred upon Zerubbabel were never fulfilled, the passage
was subsequently modified to its present form.]

The concluding chapters of the prophecy (vii., viii.), delivered two
years later than the rest of the book, vii.

1, are occupied with the ethical conditions of the impending Messianic
kingdom. To the question whether the fast-days which commemorated the
destruction of Jerusalem are still to be observed, Zechariah answers
that the ancient demands of Jehovah had nothing to do with fasting,
but with justice and mercy. As former disobedience had been followed
by a divine judgment, so would obedience now be rewarded with blessing,
fast-days would be turned into days of joy and gladness, and the blessing
would be so great that representatives of every nation would be attracted
to Jerusalem, to worship the God of the Jews.

In Zechariah even more than in Haggai it is clear that prophecy has
entered upon a new stage.[1] There is the same concentration of interest
upon the temple, the same faith in the unique importance of Zerubbabel.

But the apocalyptic element, though not quite a new thing, is present on a scale altogether new to
prophecy. Again, the transcendence of God is acutely felt--the visions
have to be interpreted by an angel.

We see, too, in the book the rise of the idea of Satan (iii.) and of the conception of sin as an independent
force, v. 5-11. The yearning for the annihilation of the kingdoms opposed to Judah, i. 18-21, has a
fine counterpart in the closing vision, viii. 22, 23, of the nations
flocking to Jerusalem because they have heard that God is there. The book
is of great historical value, affording as it does contemporary evidence
of the drooping hopes of the early post-exilic community, and of the
new manner in which this disappointment was met by prophecy. But, though
Zechariah's message was largely concerned with the building of the
temple, and was delivered for the most part in terms of vision and apocalyptic,
the ethical elements on which the "former prophets" had laid the
supreme emphasis, were by no means forgotten, viii.

16, 17. [Footnote 1: Zechariah himself is conscious of the distinction,
which is more than a temporal one, between himself and the pre-exilic
prophets: notice the manner of his allusion to the "former prophets,"
i. 4, vii.

7, 12.]

CHAPTERS IX.-XIV.

Practically all the distinctive features of the first eight chapters
disappear in ix.-xiv. The style and the historical presuppositions
are altogether different. There are two new superscriptions, ix.

1, xii. 1, but there is no reference to Zerubbabel, Joshua, or the situation of their time. There the immediate
problem was the building of the temple; here, more than once, Jerusalem
is represented as in a state of siege.

A sketch of the contents will show how unlike the one situation is to the
other.

     
     The general
     
     theme of ix. 1-xi. 3 is the destruction
     
     of the world-powers
     
     and the establishment of the kingdom of God. Judgment is declared
at the outset upon Damascus, Phoenicia and Philistia, while Jerusalem
is to enjoy the divine protection and to be the seat of the Messianic
King, ix.

1-9. Greece, the great enemy, will be overcome by Judah and Ephraim,
who are but weapons in Jehovah's hand, ix. 10-17. Then follows[1] a
passage in which "the shepherds" are threatened with a dire fate. Judah
receives a promise of victory, and Ephraim is assured that her exiles
will be gathered and brought home from Egypt and Assyria to Gilead
and Lebanon; the cedars of Lebanon and the oaks of Bashan--types perhaps
of foreign rulers--will be laid low, x. 3-xi.

3. [Footnote 1: Ch. x. 1, 2 appears to stand by itself. It is an injunction to bring the request for
rain to Jehovah and to put no faith in teraphim and diviners.]

The next section is of a different kind. In it the prophet is divinely
commissioned to tend the flock which has been neglected and impoverished
by other shepherds.

To this end he takes two staves, named Favour and Unity, to indicate
respectively the favour enjoyed by Judah in her relations with her
neighbours, and the unity subsisting between her and Israel (or Jerusalem,
according to two codices); and thus invested with the instruments
of the pastoral office he destroyed three shepherds in a short time.

But the flock grew tired of him, and, in consequence he broke the staves, i.e. the relations of favour
and unity were ruptured.

A foolish and careless shepherd is then raised up, who abuses the flock,
and over him a woe is pronounced, xi. 4-17, more minutely defined
in xiii.

7-9, which appears to have been misplaced. Jehovah will slay the shepherd and scatter the sheep; a third
of the flock after being purified by fire will constitute the people
of Jehovah.

The next section, xii. 1-xiii. 6, introduces us to a siege of Jerusalem by the heathen,
abetted by Judah. Suddenly, however, Judah changes sides; by the help of Jehovah
they destroy the heathen, and Jerusalem is saved, xii. 1-8. Then
the people and their leaders are moved by the outpouring of the spirit
to confess and entreat forgiveness for some judicial murder which
they have committed and which they publicly and bitterly lament, xii.

9-14. The prayer is answered; people and leaders are cleansed in
a fountain opened, with the result that idolatry and prophecy of
the ancient public type are abjured, xiii. 1-6.

The theme of the last section also (xiv.) is a heathen attack upon
Jerusalem, but this time the city is destroyed and half the inhabitants
exiled.

Then Jehovah intervenes, and by a miracle upon the Mount of Olives
the rest of the people effect their escape, and Jehovah Fights with all
His angels against the heathen.

Those glorious
Messianic days, when Jehovah will be King over all the earth, will
know no heat or cold, or change from light to darkness.

  
  

Jerusalem will be secure and the land about her level and fruitful, watered
east and west by a living stream.

  Those who have made
  war against her
  will waste away,
  while the rest of the world will make pilgrimages to the holy city
to worship Jehovah and celebrate the feast of booths.

Then the mighty war-horses, once the object of His hatred, will be
consecrated to His service, and the number of pilgrims will be so
great that every pot in the city and in the province of Judah will
be needed for ceremonial purposes.

Few problems in the Old Testament are more perplexing than that of the
origin and relation of the sections composing, ix.-xiv. to one another.
The utmost that can be said with comparative certainty is that the prophecy,
in its present form, is post-exilic, while certain elements in it,
especially in ix.-xi., are, if not pre-exilic, at any rate imitations
or reminiscences of pre-exilic prophecy.

Many scholars even deny that ix.-xiv. is a unity and assign it to at least
two authors. Though the superscription in xii. 1, which seems to justify
this distinction, was probably added, like Malachi i. i, by a later
hand, the presence of certain broad distinctions between ix.-xi.
and xii.-xiv. can hardly be denied.

In the former section, Ephraim is occasionally mentioned in combination
with Judah, cf. ix.

13; in the latter, Judah alone is mentioned, and partly, on the strength
of this, the former section is assigned to a period between Tiglath Pileser's
invasion of the north of Palestine in 734 (xi.

1-3) and the fall of the northern kingdom in 721, while the latter
is assigned to a period between the death of Josiah in 609, to which
the mourning in Megiddo is supposed to allude, xii.

11, and the fall of the southern kingdom in 586.

Even within these sections there are differences which are held to be incompatible
with the unity of each section. The most notable difference is perhaps
that affecting the siege of Jerusalem. In ch. xii. the heathen are
destroyed before Jerusalem, while the city itself remains secure; in ch.
xiv. the houses are rifled, the women ravished, and half of the people
go into captivity before Jehovah intervenes to protect the remainder.

These and other differences are unmistakable, yet it may be questioned whether
they are so serious as to be fatal to the unity of the whole section,
ix.-xiv. It is not impossible that they may be due to the eclectic spirit
of an author who gathered from many quarters material for his eschatological
pictures.

Besides, the sections which have been by some scholars relegated to different authors,
occasionally seem to imply each other.

The general assault on Jerusalem in ch. xii., e.g., is the natural result of the breaking of
the staves, Favour and Unity, in ch. xi. But, even if ix.-xiv. be a unity, it is well to remember,
as Cornill reminds us, that there is "much in these chapters which will
ever remain obscure and unintelligible, because our knowledge of
the whole post-exilic and especially of the early Hellenic period
is extremely deficient."

This leads to the question of date. The last section (xii.-xiv.) at any
rate is obviously post-exilic. The idea of the general assault on Jerusalem
is undoubtedly suggested by Ezekiel xxxviii.; the curiously condemnatory
attitude to prophecy in xiii.

2-6 would have been impossible in pre-exilic times; the phrase, "Uzziah king of Judah," xiv. 5, rather implies
that the dynasty is past, and the reference to the earthquake in
his reign has the flavour of a learned reminiscence.[1] These and
other circumstances practically necessitate a post-exilic date, and
the objection based upon xii.

11 falls to the ground, as that verse alludes, in all probability, not
to lamentations for the death of Josiah, which would no doubt have
taken place in Jerusalem, but to laments which accompanied the worship
of the Semitic Adonis.

Nor can any objection be grounded upon the allusion to idolatry in
xiii. 2, as idolatry persisted into post-exilic times.[2] [Footnote
1: Even if the earliest possible date (about 600) for this section
be accepted, the earthquake had taken place a century and a half
before.] [Footnote 2: Cf.

Job xxxi. 2eff. and perhaps also Ps. xvi.]

If ix.-xiv. be a unity, a definite terminus a quo is provided in ix. 13 by the
mention of the Greeks, whose sons are opposed to the sons of Zion. Such
a relation of Jews to Greeks is not conceivable before the time
of Alexander the Great, and this fact alone would throw the prophecy,
at the earliest, into the fourth century B.C. But there are other
facts which seem to some to make for a pre-exilic date: e.g. the mention
of Judah and Ephraim together, ix.

13
(cf. ix. 10), seems to presuppose the existence of both kingdoms, and Egypt and Assyria are
placed side by side, x. 10, 11, precisely in the manner of Hosea (ix. 3, xi. 5). But these facts, significant
as they may seem, are by no means decisive in favour of a pre-exilic date. Assyria was the first great
world power with which Israel came into hostile contact, and the
name was not unnaturally transferred by later ages to the hostile
powers of their own day--to Babylon in Lam. v. 6, to Persia in Ezra
vi. 22, and possibly to Syria in Isaiah xxvii.

13. Consequently, in a context which assigns the passage, at the earliest,
to the Greek period, Assyria and Egypt would very naturally designate
the Seleucid and Ptolemaic kingdoms respectively, and the prophecy
might be safely relegated to the third century, B.C.[1] The allusion
to Ephraim is not incompatible with this date, for the prophecy presupposes
a general dispersion, x. 9, which must be later than the fall of Judah
in 586, considering that residence in Egypt, x. 10, is implied (cf.

Jer. xlii.-xliv.).

     
     Nothing more need be implied by the allusion to Ephraim than that there will
     be a general restoration of all the tribes that were once driven into exile
     and are now scattered throughout the world. [Footnote 1: Marti puts it as
late as 160. One of the most important clues would be furnished by xi.
8--"I cut off the three shepherds in one month"--if the reference were not so cryptic.
Advocates of a pre-exilic date find in the words an allusion to three
successors of Jeroboam II. of Israel--Zechariah, Shallum and some
unknown pretender (about 740); others, to the rapid succession of
high priests before the Maccabean wars (about 170).

One month probably signifies generally a brief time.]

If chs. ix.-xiv. belong to the third century B.C., they give us an
interesting glimpse into the aspirations and defects of later Judaism.
They reveal an unbounded faith in the importance of Jerusalem, and in the certainty
of its triumph over the assaults of heathenism; on the other hand, they
are inspired by a fine universalism, xiv. 16ff.

But this universalism has a distinctly Levitical and legalistic colouring,
xiv. 21. Membership in the kingdom of God involves abstinence from food
proscribed by the Levitical law, ix. 7; and even for the heathen
the worship of Jehovah takes the form of the celebration of the feast
of booths, xiv.

16.

There is in the prophecy a noble appreciation of the world-wide destiny
of the true religion, but hardly of its essentially spiritual nature.


"There used to be a man who raised bloodhounds to hunt slaves with. I seen the dogs on the
trail a whole day and still not catch 'em. Sometimes the slave made friends with the dogs and
they wouldn't let on if they found him. Three dogs followed one slave the whole way up north
and he sold them up there.

"I heered 'em talk about some slaves what run barefooted in cold weather and you could trail
'em by blood in the snow and ice where they hurt their feet.

"Most of the time the master gave us castor oil when we were sick. Some old folks went in the
woods for herbs and made medicine. They made tea out of 'lion's tongue' for the stomach and
snake root is good for pains in the stomach, too. Horse mint breaks the fever. They had a vermifuge
weed.

"I seed a lot of Southern soldiers and they'd go to the big house for something to eat. Late
in '63 they had a fight at a place called Kingston, only 12 miles from our place, takin' how
the jacks go. We could hear the guns go off when they was fightin'. The Yankees beat and settled
down there and the cullud folks flocked down on them and when they got to the Yankee lines
they was safe. They went in droves of 25 or 50 to the Yankees and they put 'em to work fightin'
for freedom. They fit till the war was over and a lot of 'em got kilt. My mother and sister
run away to the Yankees and they paid 'em big money to wash for 'em.

"When peace come they read the 'mancipation law to the cullud people and they stayed up half
the night at Mr. Harper's, singing and shouting. They spent that night singin' and shoutin'.
They wasn't slaves no more. The master had to give 'em a half or third of what he made. Our
master parceled out some land to 'em and told 'em to work it their selves and some done real
well. They got hosses that the soldiers had turned loose to die, and fed them and took good
care of 'em and they got good stock that way. A dispatch from the Headquarters Staff of the Commander in Chief says:

At
the beginning of March, (Old Style,) in the principal chain of the
Carpathians, we only held the region of the Dukla Pass, where our
lines formed an exterior angle. * * * * *

{291}

EARLY USE OF TIN.

Mr. Layard, in his work upon Nineveh and Babylon, in reference to
the articles of bronze from Assyria now in the British Museum, states,
that the tin used in the composition was probably obtained from Phoenicia;
and, consequently, that that used in the Assyrian bronze may actually
have been exported nearly three thousand years ago from the British
Isles.

The Assyrians appear to have made an extensive use of this metal; and
the degree of perfection which the making of bronze had then reached,
clearly shows that they must have been long experienced in the use
of it.

They appear to have received what they used from the Phoenicians.
When and by whom was tin first discovered in our island? Were the Celtic
tribes acquainted with it previously to the arrival of the Phoenicians upon
our shores?

It is said that the Phoenicians were indebted to the Tyrian Hercules
for their trade in tin; and that this island owed them its name of
Baratanac, or Britain, the land of tin.

Was the Tyrian Hercules, or, as he was afterwards known and worshipped, as the Melkart of Tyre, and
the Moloch of the Bible, was he the merchant-leader of the first band of Phoenicians who visited
this island? When did he live?

G. W.

Stansted, Montfichet.

* * * * *

ST. PATRICK--MAUNE AND MAN.

Amongst the many strange derivations
given of the name of Mona or Man (the island), I find one in an old
unpublished MS. by an unknown author, of the date about 1658, noticed
by Feltham (Tour through the Isle of Man, p. 8.), on which I venture
to ground a Query. The name of the island is there said to have been
derived from Maune, the name of the great apostle of the Mann, before
he received that of Patricius from Pope Celestine. Then they knocked their
brains out and threw 'em in the river.

"We was 'fraid of them Klu Kluxes and come to town, to Snow Hill. We rented a little house
and my mother took in washing and ironing. I went to school and learned to read and write,
then worked on farms, and fin'ly went to Columbia, in South Carolina, and worked in the turpentine
country. I stayed there a while and got married.

"I come to Texas in 1877 and Galveston was a little pen then, a little mess. CHAPTER XXX.

SOME OTHER EXAMPLES OF ELVES.

On the 25th of August, 1746, I received a letter from a very worthy
man, the curé of the parish of Walsche, a village situated in the
mountains of Vosges, in the county of Dabo, or Dasburg, in Lower Alsatia,
Diocese of Metz.

In this letter, he tells me that the 10th of June, 1740, at eight o'clock in the morning, he being
in his kitchen, with his niece and the servant, he saw on a sudden an iron pot that was placed
on the ground turn round three or four times, without its being set in motion by any one. A moment
after, a stone, weighing about a pound, was thrown from the next
room into the same kitchen, in presence of the same persons, without
their seeing the hand which threw it.

The next day, at nine o'clock in the morning, some panes of glass were broken, and through these panes
were thrown some stones, with what appeared to them supernatural dexterity. The spirit never
hurt anybody, and never did anything in the night time, but always during the day. The curé
employed the prayers marked out in the ritual to bless his house, and thenceforth the genius
broke no more panes of glass; but he continued to throw stones at
the curé's people, without hurting them, however.

If they fetched water from the fountain, he threw stones into the bucket;
and afterwards he began to serve in the kitchen. One day, as the
servant was planting some cabbages in the garden, he pulled them
up as fast as she planted them, and laid them in a heap.

     It was in vain that she stormed, threatened, and swore in the German style;
     the genius continued to play his tricks.

One
     
     day, when a bed in the garden had been dug and prepared, the spade was found
     thrust two feet deep into the ground, without any trace being seen
of him who had thus stuck it in; but they observed that on the spade
was a riband, and by the spade were two pieces of two soles, which
the girl had locked up the evening before in a little box.

Sometimes he took pleasure in displacing the earthenware and pewter, and putting it either all
round the kitchen, or in the porch, or even in the cemetery, and
always in broad daylight.

One day he filled an iron pot with wild herbs, bran, and leaves of trees, and, having put some water in
it, carried it to the ally or walk in the garden; another time he suspended it to the pot-hook
over the fire. The servant having broken two eggs into a little dish for the curé's supper, the genius
broke two more into it in his presence, the maid having merely turned to get some salt. The
curé having gone to say mass, on his return found all his earthenware, furniture, linen, bread, milk,
and other things scattered about over the house.

Sometimes the spirit would form circles on the paved floor, at one
time with stones, at another with corn or leaves, and in a moment,
before the eyes of all present, all was overturned and deranged.

Tired with these games, the curé sent for the mayor of the place,
and told him he was resolved to quit the parsonage house. Whilst this
was passing, the curé's niece came in, and told them that the genius
had torn up the cabbages in the garden, and had put some money in
a hole in the ground.

They went there, and found things exactly as she had said. They picked
up the money, which what the curé had put away in a place not locked
up; and in a moment after they found it anew, with some liards, two
by two, scattered about the kitchen.

The agents of the Count de Linange being arrived at Walsche, went to the curé's house, and persuaded
him that it was all the effect of a spell; they told him to take two
pistols, and fire them off at the place where he might observe there
were any movements.

The genius at the same moment threw out of the pocket of one of these
officers two pieces of silver; and from that time he was no longer perceived
in the house.

The circumstances of two pistols terminating the scenes with which
the elf had disturbed the good curé, made him believe that this tormenting
imp was no other than a certain bad parishioner, whom the curé had
been obliged to send away from his parish, and who to revenge himself
had done all that we have related.

If that be the case, he had rendered himself invisible, or he had had credit enough to send in
his stead a familiar genius who puzzled the curé for some weeks; for, if he were not bodily in
this house, what had he to fear from any pistol shot which might
have been fired at him?

And if he was there bodily, how could he render himself invisible?

I have been told several times that a monk of the Cistercian order
had a familiar genius who attended upon him, arranged his chamber,
and prepared everything ready for him when he was coming back from
the country.

They were so accustomed to this, that they expected him home by these signs, and he always arrived.
It is affirmed of another monk of the same order that he had a familiar spirit, who warned him,
not only of what passed in the house, but also of what happened out of it; and one day he was awakened
three times, and warned that some monks were quarreling, and were ready to come to blows; he ran to
the spot, and put an end to the dispute.

St. Sulpicius Severus[284] relates that St. Martin often had conversations
with the Holy Virgin, and other saints, and even with the demons
and false gods of paganism; he talked with them, and learned from
them many secret things.

One day, when a council was being held at Nîmes, where he had not thought proper to be present, but
the decisions of which he desired to know, being in a boat with St.
Sulpicius, but apart from others, as usual with him, an angel appeared,
and informed him what had passed in this assembly of bishops.

Inquiry was made as to the day and hour when the council was held,
and it was found to be at the same hour at which the angel had appeared
to Martin.

     
     
     
     

     
     We have been told several times that a young ecclesiastic, in a seminary
     at Paris,
     
     had a genius who waited upon him, and arranged his room and his clothes.
One day, when the superior was passing by the chamber of the seminarist,
he heard him talking with some one; he entered, and asked who he
was conversing with.

The youth affirmed that there was no one in his room, and, in fact,
the superior could neither see nor discover any one there.

Nevertheless, as he had heard their conversation, the young man owned that for some years he had
been attended by a familiar genius, who rendered him every service that a domestic could have
done, and had promised him great advantages in the ecclesiastical profession. The superior pressed
him to give some proofs of what he said. He ordered the genius to set a
chair for the superior; the genius obeyed. Information of this was
sent to the archbishop, who did not think proper to give it publicity.

The young clerk was sent away, and this singular adventure was buried
in silence.

Bodin[285] speaks of a person of his acquaintance who was still
living at the time he wrote, which was in 1588. This person had a familiar
who from the age of thirty-seven had given him good advice respecting
his conduct, sometimes to correct his faults, sometimes to make him practice
virtue, or to assist him; resolving the difficulties which he might
find in reading holy books, or giving him good counsel upon his own
affairs.

He usually rapped at his door at three or four o'clock in the morning
to awaken him; and as that person mistrusted all these things, fearing
that it might be an evil angel, the spirit showed himself in broad
day, striking gently on a glass bowl, and then upon a bench.

When he desired to do anything good and useful, the spirit touched his right ear; but if it was
anything wrong and dangerous, he touched his left ear; so that from that time nothing occurred to him
of which he was not warned beforehand. Sometimes he heard his voice; and one day, when he found his life
in imminent danger, he saw his genius, under the form of a child
of extraordinary beauty, who saved him from it.

William, Bishop of Paris,[286] says that he knew a rope-dancer who had
a familiar spirit which played and joked with him, and prevented him from sleeping,
throwing something against the wall, dragging off the bed-clothes,
or pulling him about when he was in bed. We know by the account
of a very sensible person that it has happened to him in the open
country, and in the day time, to feel his cloak and boots pulled at,
and his hat thrown down; then he heard the bursts of laughter and
the voice of a person deceased and well known to him, who seemed to
rejoice at it.

The discovery of things hidden or unknown, which is made in dreams, or
otherwise, can hardly be ascribed to anything but to familiar spirits.
A man who did not know a word of Greek came to M. de Saumaise, senior,
a counselor of the Parliament of Dijon, and showed him these words,
which he had heard in the night, as he slept, and which he wrote
down in French characters on awaking: "Apithi ouc osphraine tén sén
apsychian."

He asked him what that meant. M. de Saumaise told him it meant, "Save yourself; do you not perceive the
death with which you are threatened?" Upon this hint, the man removed, and left his house,
which fell down the following night.[287]

The same story is related,
with a little difference, by another author, who says that the circumstance
happened at Paris;[288] that the genius spoke in Syriac, and that
M. de Saumaise being consulted, replied, "Go out of your house, for
it will fall in ruins to-day, at nine o'clock in the evening."

It is but too much the custom in reciting stories of this kind to add a few circumstances
by way of embellishment.

Gassendi, in the Life of M. Peiresch, relates that M. Peiresch, going
one day to Nismes, with one of his friends, named M. Rainier, the
latter, having heard Peiresch talking in his sleep in the night, waked
him, and asked him what he said.

Peiresch answered him, "I dreamed that, being at Nismes, a jeweler had offered me a medal of
Julius Cæsar, for which he asked four crowns, and as I was going
to count him down his money, you waked me, to my great regret."

They arrived at Nismes, and going about the town, Peiresch recognized the goldsmith whom
he had seen in his dream; and on his asking him if he had nothing curious,
the goldsmith told him he had a gold medal, or coin, of Julius Cæsar.
Peiresch asked him how much he esteemed it worth; he replied, four
crowns.

Peiresch paid them, and was delighted to see his dream so happily accomplished.

Here is a dream much more singular than the preceding, although a little in
the same style.[289] A learned man of Dijon, after having wearied himself
all day with an important passage in a Greek poet, without being able
to comprehend it at all, went to bed thinking of this difficulty.

During his sleep, his genius transported him in spirit to Stockholm, introduced him into the palace
of Queen Christina, conducted him into the library, and showed him
a small volume, which was precisely what he sought.

He opened it, read in it ten or twelve Greek verses, which absolutely
cleared up the difficulty which had so long beset him; he awoke, and
wrote down the verses he had seen at Stockholm. On the morrow, he
wrote to M. Descartes, who was then in Sweden, and begged of him to
look in such a place, and in such a division of the library, if the
book, of which he sent him the description, were there, and if the
Greek verses which he sent him were to be read in it.

M. Descartes replied that he had found the book in question; and also
the verses he had sent were in the place he pointed out; that one
of his friends had promised him a copy of that work, and he would
send it him by the first opportunity.

We have already said something of the spirit, or familiar genius
of Socrates, which prevented him from doing certain things, but did not lead him
to do others. It is asserted[290] that, after the defeat of the Athenian
army, commanded by Laches, Socrates, flying like the others, with
this Athenian general, and being arrived at a spot where several roads
met, Socrates would not follow the road taken by the other fugitives;
and when they asked him the reason, he replied, because his genius
drew him away from it.

The event justified his foresight. All those who had taken the other road were either killed or made
prisoners by the enemy's cavalry.

It is doubtful whether the elves, of which so many things are related,
are good or bad spirits; for the faith of the church admits nothing
between these two kinds of genii.

Every genius is either good or bad; but as there are in heaven many mansions, as the Gospel says,[291]
and as there are among the blessed, various degrees of glory, differing
from each other, so we may believe that there are in hell various degrees of
pain and punishment for the damned and the demons.

But are they not rather magicians, who render themselves invisible, and divert
themselves in disquieting the living?

Why do they attach themselves to certain spots, and certain persons, rather than
to others? Why do they make themselves perceptible only during a certain
time, and that sometimes a short space?

I could willingly conclude that what is said of them is mere fancy and
prejudice; but their reality has been so often experienced by the discourse
they have held, and the actions they have performed in the presence
of many wise and enlightened persons, that I cannot persuade myself
that among the great number of stories related of them there are not
at least some of them true.

It may be remarked that these elves never lead one to anything good, to prayer,
or piety, to the love of God, or to godly and serious actions. If
they do no other harm, they leave hurtful doubts about the punishments
of the damned, on the efficacy of prayer and exorcisms; if they hurt
not those men or animals which are found on the spot where they may
be perceived, it is because God sets bounds to their malice and power.

The demon has a thousand ways of deceiving us. All those to whom these genii attach
themselves have a horror of them, mistrust and fear them; and it
rarely happens that these familiar demons do not lead them to a dangerous
end, unless they deliver themselves from them by grave acts of religion
and penance.

There is the story of a spirit, "which," says he who wrote it to me, "I no more doubt the truth of than
if I had been a witness of it."

Count Despilliers, the father, being a young man, and captain of cuirassiers,
was in winter quarters in Flanders. One of his men came to him one day to beg
that he would change his landlord, saying that every night there came into
his bed-room a spirit, which would not allow him to sleep. The Count
Despilliers sent him away, and laughed at his simplicity. Some days after,
the same horseman came back and made the same request to him; the
only reply of the captain would have been a volley of blows with a stick,
had not the soldier avoided them by a prompt flight. At last, he returned
a third time to the charge, and protested to his captain that he
could bear it no longer, and should be obliged to desert if his lodgings
were not changed.

Despilliers, who knew the soldier to be brave and reasonable, said to him,
with an oath, "I will go this night and sleep with you, and see what
is the matter."

At ten o'clock in the evening, the captain repaired to his soldier's
lodging, and having laid his pistols ready primed upon the table, he
lay down in his clothes, his sword by his side, with his soldier,
in a bed without curtains.

About midnight he heard something which came into the room, and in a moment turned the bed upside
down, covering the captain and the soldier with the mattress and paillasse. Despilliers had great
trouble to disengage himself and find again his sword and pistols,
and he returned home much confounded.

The horse-soldier had a new lodging the very next day, and slept quietly
in the house of his new host.

M. Despilliers related this adventure to any one who would listen to it. He was
an intrepid man, who had never known what it was to fall back before
danger.

He died field-marshal of the armies of the
Emperor Charles VI. and governor of the fortress of Ségedin. His son
has confirmed this adventure to me within a short time, as having heard
it from his father.

The person who writes to me adds: "I doubt not that spirits sometimes
return; but I have found myself in a great many places which it was said
they haunted. I have even tried several times to see them, but I
have never seen any.

I found myself once with more than four thousand persons, who all
said they saw the spirit; I was the only one in the assembly who
saw nothing."

So writes me a very worthy officer, this year, 1745, in the same letter wherein
he relates the affair of M. Despilliers.

Footnotes:

[284]
St. Sulpit. Sever. Dialog. ii. c. 14, 15.

[285] Bodin Demonomania, lib. ii. c. 2.

[286] Guillelm.
Paris, 2 Part. quæst. 2, c. 8.

[287] Grot. Epist. Part. ii. Ep. 405.

[288] They affirm that it happened at Dijon, in the family of the
MM. Surmin, in which a constant tradition has perpetuated the memory
of the circumstance.

[289] Continuation of the Count de Gabalis, at the Hague, 1708, p. 55.

[290]
Cicero, de Divinat. lib. i.

[291] John xiv. 2.

CHAPTER XXXI.

SPIRITS THAT KEEP WATCH OVER TREASURE.

Everybody acknowledges that there is an infinity of riches buried in the
earth, or lost under the waters by shipwrecks; they fancy that the
demon, whom they look upon as the god of riches, the god Mammon, the
Pluto of the pagans, is the depositary, or at least the guardian,
of these treasures.

We know also that the ancients very often interred vast treasures
in the tombs of the dead; either that the dead might make use of them
in the other world, or that their souls might keep guard over them
in those gloomy places.

Job
seems to make allusion to this ancient custom, when he says,[293] "Would to God I had never been
born: I should now sleep with the kings and great ones of the earth,
who built themselves solitary places; like unto those who seek for
treasure, and are rejoiced when they find a tomb;" doubtless because
they hope to find great riches therein.

There were very precious things in the tomb of Cyrus. Den I goes to Dallas and cooks
for private families, and wo'ks for Marster James Ellison for 30 years. I stops four years
ago and comes out here to wait till de good Lawd calls me home.

"Bout gittin' married, after I quits de Gran' Hotel I marries and we'uns has two chillen. My
wife died three years later.

"You knows, I believes I's mo' contented as a slave. I's treated kind all de time and had no
frettin' 'bout how I gwine git on. Since I's been free, I sometimes have heaps of frettin'.
Course, I don' want to go back into slavery, but I's paid for my freedom.

"I's never been sick abed, but I's had mo' misery dis las' year dan all my life. It's my heart.
If I live till December, I'll be 102 years old, and dis ole heart have been pumpin' and pumpin'
all dem years and have missed nary a beat till dis las' year. I knows 'twon't be long till
de good Lawd calls dis ole nigger to cross de Ribber Jordan and I's ready for de Lawd when
he calls.

420082

     FELIX HAYWOOD is a temperamental and whimsical old Negro of San
     Antonio, Texas, who still sees the sunny side of his 92 years, in
     spite of his total blindness. He was born and bred a slave in St.
     Hedwig, Bexar Co., Texas, the son of slave parents bought in
     Mississippi by his master, William Gudlow. Before and during the
     Civil War he was a sheep herder and cowpuncher. His autobiography is
     a colorful contribution, showing the philosophical attitude of the
     slaves, as well as shedding some light upon the lives of slave
     owners whose support of the Confederacy was not accompanied by
     violent hatred of the Union.

"Yes, sir, I'm Felix Haywood, and I can answer all those things that you want to know. But,
first, let me ask you this: Is you all a white man, or is you a black man?"

"I'm black, blacker than you are," said the caller.

The eyes of the old blind Negro,--eyes like two murkey brown marbles--actually twinkled. Then
he laughed:

"No, you ain't. I knowed you was white man when you comes up the path and speaks. I jus' always
asks that question for fun. From whom was this message, and to whom? Was it to the England of
Trafalgar and the Nile?

Was it to the descendants of the men who conquered at Agincourt and Cressy, and changed for ages
at Waterloo the destiny of the world?

Why, Nelson would speak from his monument, and the Iron Duke from his equestrian statue, and forbid
the degradation of their country. But there stood the Confederate messenger, delivering the
mandate of a foreign power to the House of Commons, describing England as a crawling reptile,
exalting the Government he professed to represent, as controlling the Continent, and fearing
lest the Imperial Eagle alone should swoop down upon his prey. And such language, such sentiments!
Was I in Billingsgate, that ancient and illustrious institution,
so near the House of Parliament?

Why, the whole code of morals and of international law was repudiated in a sentence, and our
demagogues distanced in the race. Did the envoy echo the voice of his master, when he announced
that the American Union must be dissolved by foreign intervention, because, if reunited, it
would be too strong, and bully the world--therefore France and England combined must strike
us when we were supposed to be weak and divided.

It is not the author of such atrocious and dastard sentiments that would lead the banner of France
or of England anywhere except to humiliation and disgrace. 'Non talis auxilii, nec defensoribus ipsis.' No,
when England seeks leaders, it will not be the sycophants of power, those who worship alternately
democracy and autocracy, who slaver over despotism one day with their venom, and the next with
their still more loathsome adulation.

But there was a change. The Ministry, and one of an order supposed to be our most deadly foes, spoke.
There were some opinions as to the results in which no American could concur--there was deep
devotion to England--but there was also the voice of reason, of justice, of international law: it was not
so cosmopolitan as I expected, but the argument of felon force and robber violence was discarded.
The scholar, the statesman, the gentleman, the philanthropist addressed the English Commons.
Yes, and the nobility of nature also spoke, one who could rise above the
reputed prejudices of his order, and do justice to a kindred race
of simple republicans, though they may know neither diadems nor coronets.
Such examples exalt and dignify the character of man. We used
to laugh at that. There wasn't no reason to =run= up North. All we had to do was to =walk=,
but walk =South=, and we'd be free as soon as we crossed the Rio Grande. In Mexico you could
be free. They didn't care what color you was, black, white, yellow or blue. Hundreds of slaves
did go to Mexico and got on all right. We would hear about 'em and how they was goin' to be
Mexicans. They brought up their children to speak only Mexican.

"Me and my father and five brothers and sisters weren't goin' to Mexico. I went there after
the war for a while and then I looked 'round and decided to get back. So I come back to San
Antonio and I got a job through Colonel Breckenridge with the waterworks. I was handling pipes.
My foreman was Tom Flanigan--he must have been a full-blooded Frenchman!

"But what I want to say is, we didn't have no idea of runnin' and escapin'. We was happy. We
got our lickings, but just the same we got our fill of biscuits every time the white folks
had 'em. Nobody knew how it was to lack food. Beyond these, in immediate proximity to the city,
they discovered the people of Panama in arms, in yet greater numbers. The action with the advanced
army, under the governor, soon commenced, the wild cattle being of no avail against the pirates,
who shot them all down in a very brief space of time. But the Spaniards, especially the cavalry,
fought bravely for more than two hours. The horse having at length been compelled to yield,
the infantry fled, after a brief resistance.

Six hundred Spaniards lay dead upon the field, and the buccaneers
suffered so severely that they were forced to desist from an immediate
pursuit, and obtain some rest.

From a prisoner they ascertained that the city was defended by two
thousand five hundred men, with a large number of heavy guns, planted
at different points.

But the buccaneers, though sadly diminished in numbers, were determined
to finish the work they had begun on the same day; and taking an oath
that they would stand by each other to the last, they again advanced,
and a second fierce and bloody encounter took place at the very gates
of the city, which, after a resistance of three hours, fell into the
hands of the buccaneers.

    Neither party gave or received
    quarter, and after the conquest
  the pirates killed nearly all who fell into
    their hands, sparing
    neither ecclesiastics
  nor women.

  The city was at that time
  one of remarkable splendor,
  containing two thousand
  houses of great magnificence.
  The private dwellings were chiefly built of cedar, and embellished
with hangings, paintings, and everything that luxury and taste could
supply.

But the gorgeous palaces and solemn temples were doomed to the flames by the order of Morgan
himself, although he afterward endeavored to fix the act of vandalism upon others. They were
probably burned in revenge because found empty, for many of the inhabitants had sought refuge
in flight, carrying away such of their valuables as they could. Still, by the horrible processes
of torture, immense discoveries were made of treasures concealed in the wells and caves, and
in the woods. Some valuable freights were taken from boats in the harbor, which had been left aground
at low water; and rich deposits were frequently discovered in the earth, under the excruciating
tortures of the rack.

Morgan lingered at Panama for a considerable period, until, indeed, his men began to murmur at their
protracted inactivity. The cause of this inaction will hardly be divined from the character
thus far developed of this stupendous freebooter; but it was the tender passion! He had among
his prisoners a beautiful Spanish lady, who attracted his particular attention. She was a native
of Spain, and the wife of an opulent merchant, whose business had
some time before called him to Peru. According to the historians
of that day, she was still in the bloom of youth; 'Her cheeks, naturally
ruddy, were heightened by a tropical sun into a warmer glow; and her fine
black eyes, dazzling with uncommon lustre, gave animation to the
noblest countenance that ever the hand of nature delineated, or poet's
fancy conceived.

The interest which her unhappy situation excited was heightened into admiration by her elevated
mien; and her whole deportment indicated a soul incapable of being degraded from its native
rank, by any reverse of condition, or any depth of misery.' Morgan, rude as he was, and unused
to the melting mood, was nevertheless charmed with her conversation, and the admiration which
he felt for her bearing was ere long changed into yet more tender emotions. He provided a house
for her, and assigned to her service a retinue of domestics.

Shortly afterward he attempted to open such a correspondence with her as might favor his desires,
but failing in this, he proceeded to usurp some freedoms, at which her delicacy revolted. Her
rebuke, firm and noble, drove him back abashed; but his impetuous
temper could not well brook disappointment, and in the ardor of his
passion he subsequently attempted to force her into compliance with
his brutal desires.

  But with a virtue as
  exalted as that of the
  Roman matron, who resisted,
  but in vain, the advances of the son of Tarquin, and with a yet higher
courage, she sprang from his attempted embrace, exclaiming, 'Stop!

Thinkest thou, then, that thou canst ravish mine honor from me, as thou hast wrested from me
my fortune and my liberty?

Be assured that I can die and be avenged!' Having said this, she
drew from her bosom a poniard, which she would have plunged into his
breast, had he not avoided the blow.

     From that moment she became an object not only of his hate, but of
     his cruelty, until at length she was ransomed by some of her friends.
     History has not preserved the name of this lofty specimen of female
     purity and honor; but, like that of Lucretia, it deserves the topmost
     niche in the temple of virtue.

At
     
     length, in the month of February, Morgan took his departure from Panama,
     having one hundred and seventy-five beasts of burden laden with silver
and gold, jewelry, and other precious things.

He also took with him six hundred prisoners, men, women, and children, for the purpose of extorting
enormous ransoms for them by the way; the cries of the women and children were pitiful to hear;
but the freebooter's heart was steeled against every humane emotion. Returning down the river
Chagre, he destroyed the castle at its entrance, and prepared to
reëmbark for Jamaica.

Before going on board, however, a division of the plunder was made, which gave great dissatisfaction.
It seemed unaccountable to his men that so large an apparent amount of booty should yield only
about two hundred pieces of eight per capita, and rumors of foul play were rife. Meantime he
had richly laden his own ship with merchandise; and in the course of the following night, while
his companions were in a deep sleep, he put to sea and escaped to Jamaica, and thence to England.
Such an instance of treachery had never been before known among the
buccaneers, and the rage and resentment that ensued cannot be described.

His departure was the signal for the dispersion of the fleet. The French returned to Tortuga. Some
of the English attempted to overtake the mighty robber and make him disgorge, but were unsuccessful.
Others of the crews dispersed with their vessels to seek their fortunes as best they might. Morgan
ultimately returned to England laden with wealth, and was well received. He afterward became
a commander in the naval service of his country, and obtained the honor of knighthood from
William III.

The capture of Panama, however, was the last great land expedition successfully undertaken by
the buccaneers. A few other land expeditions, it is true, were begun
by chiefs of lesser note; but the indifferent success which attended
these, induced the freebooters insensibly to confine their operations
more exclusively to the water, and there was no sea left untraversed
by them, from the Atlantic to the Indian ocean.

The commerce of almost all nations was annoyed by them, although their depredations continued
more particularly to be directed against the first objects of their hate, the Spaniards. It
is a curious fact, illustrating the corruption of the Roman Catholic Church at that time, that
in one of the Spanish ships captured while on her way to South America, by an Englishman named
White, there were found no less than two millions of Papal bulls, granting indulgences to the
Spaniards of the New World! These were a royal trade, and had been purchased by the king of Spain
for three hundred thousand florins, prime cost, and by him were designed
to be retailed for five millions.

Thus, by their capture, his Catholic Majesty lost the benefit of a fine speculation. Had these indulgences
been captured by Yankees, they would have contrived to barter them away at a profit; or had
the captors been good Catholics, they might have ravaged the whole
continent with very quiet consciences, having the Pope's pardon already
in their pockets.[B]

It is a curious fact, not, I believe, very
extensively understood, that the great English circumnavigator Dampier
was for a considerable period connected with the buccaneers after
the flight of Morgan.

Dampier found himself among them at first by accident, having
gone ashore on the Spanish main in great distress to procure provisions.
Falling in with a party of the marauders, he was induced to join them.
He was at the taking of Porto Bello; and afterward crossed the Isthmus
of Darien with Sawkins, Sharp, and others.

Sawkins, the commander, was killed in an attack on Puebla Nova in
1679.

     Dampier, in his 'Voyages,' gives an interesting account of their
     subsequent course along the coasts, and among the islands of the
     Pacific, which was rather disastrous. A mutiny, however, occurring
     among those of the buccaneers engaged in the expedition, Dampier returned
     across the Isthmus and came to Virginia in July, 1682, where, after he
     and his companions had dissipated all their wealth, they fitted out another
piratical expedition for the South seas, doubling Cape Horn in the
spring of 1684.

Proceeding northward to Panama, Dampier's party were joined by large numbers of buccaneers who had just
crossed the Isthmus; and obtaining a number of additional vessels, they prepared to intercept the Plate
fleet on its departure from Lima for Spain. After a few successes, and several disasters, Dampier
and his companions sailed to the Philippine Islands in 1686; and
subsequently visited most of the islands in the Pacific, sometimes
rioting in luxury, and at others brought to the verge of starvation.

Dampier quitted the buccaneers at the island of Nicoba, in the spring of 1688. Subsequently, however,
he again joined them, as the commander of a fine vessel; but the treachery of his officers and
crew defeated the objects of the cruise. Returning from this bootless voyage, he was presented to
Queen Anne, and well received. He subsequently made a fourth voyage to the Pacific, during which
he discovered and took from the island of Juan Fernandez the celebrated
Alexander Selkirk, the hero of De Foe's Robinson Crusoe--a story
ever delightful and ever new to readers old and young.

The actual experience of Selkirk, as related by Dampier, corresponds more closely with the narrative,
probably, than has generally been supposed.

The last great enterprise of this remarkable race of men was directed
against Carthagena in 1697.

It was planned in France, from one of the ports of which a squadron of twelve vessels sailed,
under the command of Pointis. It was joined by twelve hundred buccaneers in the West Indies;
and although Carthagena was then the strongest city in the New World, its forts and castles were
carried by storm in rapid succession. The booty thus acquired by Pointis amounted to one million
seven hundred and fifty thousand pounds sterling, with which he embarked
and made sail.

But they had not been long at sea before the buccaneers discovered that their rapacious commander
was meditating how he should deprive them of their share of the plunder. Exasperated at this
treatment, they at first determined to put him to death. This purpose, however, was diverted
by a suggestion to return to Carthagena and demand a heavy ransom to save the city from destruction, that
they might fill their pockets in that way. This project was carried into execution. Entering the
city without resistance, the men were confined in the great church, and a ransom demanded of more
than two hundred and eighteen thousand pounds sterling. A venerable priest ascended the pulpit, and
by his eloquent address persuaded the people to comply with the demand, by surrendering all their
remaining money and jewels. But the amount fell short of the demand, and the city was sacked a second
time. Having amassed all the wealth they could find, the adventurers once
more put to sea. But they did not long enjoy their ill-gotten riches.

Meeting with a fleet of ships belonging to England and Holland, both of which nations were
then in alliance with Spain, an engagement ensued, in which several of the pirates were taken
and sunk, and among them were lost the treasure ships, so that the booty went to the bottom of
the sea. This was the last memorable event in the history of the buccaneers of America, although
a lower order of piracy prevailed, both in the Atlantic and Pacific oceans, for many years
afterward.

There had been for the most part a separation between the English and French buccaneers on the revolution
of 1688, which brought William and Mary to the throne of England, and terminated the friendly relations
between that nation and the Gauls. By the peace of Ryswick, moreover,
in 1697, peace was restored between France and Spain, and it then
became the interest as well as the policy of Europe to put an end
to the associated existence of the most extraordinary combination
of men who ever trod the earth.

History affords no parallel to the buccaneers. 'Without any regular system, without laws, without any
degree of subordination, and even without any fixed revenue, they
became the astonishment of the age in which they lived, as they will
be of posterity.' In their actions is to be found a mixture of the
most opposite feelings and principles.

They were at once undauntedly brave, and cowardly brutal; full of justice and honor to each other, and yet
a lawless banditti. As an evidence of their feelings of honor, it is related that on a certain
occasion a company of their fraternity--'Brothers of the Coast,' as they styled themselves--had
stipulated, for a certain sum, to escort a Spanish ship richly laden.
One of them ventured to propose to his companions to enrich themselves at
once by taking the ship.

Montauban, the commander of the troop, had no sooner heard the proposal, than he desired to resign
his command and be set on shore. 'What!' replied the freebooters, 'would you then leave us? Is
there one among us who approves of the treachery you abhor?' A council
was thereupon called, and it was agreed that the person who had made
the proposition should be thrown upon the first coast they should
reach.

'The history of past times,' says a quaint writer, 'doth not offer, nor will that of future times
produce, an example of such an association, almost as marvellous as the discovery of the New
World. Their swords and their daring spirit, which they exercised with such terrible effect,
were the only fortune they possessed in Europe. In America, being enemies of all mankind, and
dreaded by all, perpetually exposed to the most extreme dangers, and considering every day
as their last, their wealth was dissipated in the same manner in which it was acquired. They gave
themselves up to all excesses of debauchery and profusion, and on returning from their expeditions,
the intoxication of their victories accompanied them in their feasts:
they would embrace their mistresses in their bloody arms and fall asleep
for a while, lulled by voluptuous pleasures, from which they were aroused to
proceed to fresh massacres. It was a matter of indifference to them
whether they left their bodies upon the earth or beneath the waters,
and they consequently looked upon life and death with the same composure.

Ferocious in mind, misguided in conscience, destitute of connections, of relatives, of friends,
of fellow citizens, of country, of an asylum; without any of those motives which moderate the ardor
of bravery by the value which they attach to existence, they were ever ready
to rush, as without sight, upon the most desperate attempts. Equally incapable
of submitting to indigence or quiet; too proud to employ themselves
in common labor; they would have been the scourge of the Old World,
had they not been that of the New.'

* * * * *

In closing this paper,
it remains to glance for a moment at the real history of William Kidd,
the buccaneer of the American colonies, whose name, as remarked in
the former part of this article,[C] has for a hundred and fifty years
stood at the head of the pirate legends of the North, but who, in
reality, must have been one of the smallest members of the fraternity.

I have not been able to ascertain the place of Kidd's nativity. He was,
however, the captain of a merchant vessel, trading between New York
and London, and was celebrated for his nautical skill and enterprise.
The first mention of him, in our authentic criminal history, occurs
in 1691, in which year, as we learn from the journals of the New York
Assembly, much was allowed to be due him 'for the many good services
done for the province in attending with his vessels.' But in what
capacity, or for what object, he 'attended with his vessels,' does
not appear.

     It was also declared that he ought to be suitably rewarded. Accordingly, in
     the same year, it was ordered by the Assembly 'that the sum of one
     hundred and fifty pounds be paid to Captain Kidd, as a suitable acknowledgement
     for the important benefits which the colony had derived from his services.'
     The presumption is, that those services were in some way connected with
     the protection of the colonial merchant ships from the attacks of
     the pirates, who were even yet hovering along the coasts of the Northern
colonies. Indeed, the harbor of New York itself was no stranger to the pirate
vessels, and the commerce between them and the 'people of figure' in
the city was not inconsiderable. It was no secret that the pirates
were freely supplied with provisions by the inhabitants of Long Island.
Further yet, it was well known in the year 1695, that the English
pirates had fitted out the vessels in the harbor of New York. On the
arrival of the pirate vessels from their cruises, their goods were openly
sold in the city, and the conduct of the Colonial Government was such,
that collusion, if not actual partnerships between them and the public
authorities, was not doubted.

Colonel Fletcher, a poor and profligate man, was governor at that time. He was beyond doubt concerned
with the freebooters, as also was William Nicoll, a member of the privy council. Complaints upon
this subject having reached England, Fletcher was succeeded, in 1695, by the Earl of Bellamont,
the appointment being made in the belief that, from his rank and the wealth of his character,
he would be able to retrieve the character of the Colonial Government.

Justice,
however, to the memory of Kidd requires it to be said that he was
not at that period, so far as it is known, a pirate himself.

Before Lord Bellamont sailed from England for his government, he met with Robert Livingston of New
York--the ancestor of the Livingstons of Livingston's Manor--with whom
he held a conversation respecting the pirates, and the best means that could
be adopted to put them down. The project of employing a swift-sailing armed
ship of thirty guns, and one hundred and fifty men, to cruise against
them, was spoken of; and Livingston recommended his lordship to Kidd,
as a man of integrity and courage, acquainted with the pirates and
their places of rendezvous, and as one in all respects fit to be intrusted
with the command of a vessel engaged in such a difficult service.

He had,
indeed, commanded a privateer, in regular commission, against the pirates
in the West Indies, in which service he had acquitted himself as a
brave and adventurous man.

The project not being entertained by the Board of Admiralty,
a private adventure against the pirates was suggested by Mr. Livingston,
one fifth part of the stock of which he would take himself, besides becoming
security for the good conduct of Kidd. The proposition was approved by
the king, who became interested to the amount of one tenth; and the residue
of the expense was supplied by Lord Chancellor Somers, the Duke of
Shrewsbury, the Earls of Romney and Oxford, and Sir Edmund Harrison
and others.

The ship having been procured and equipped, Kidd sailed for New York under a regular commission,
in April, 1696--the direction of the enterprise being committed to the Earl of Bellamont and himself.
For a time he served faithfully and with advantage to the commerce of the colonies and mother country;
for which services he received much public applause, and another grant from the colony of two
hundred and fifty pounds. Tradition, moreover, says that, on visiting
the government house, he was received with public honors, and invited
to a seat with the speaker of the House of Assembly.

On his next voyage, however, he stretched away to the Indian ocean, and turned pirate himself.
 She said we could
stay and farm with her and work her teams and use her tools and land and pay her half of what
we made, 'sides our supplies. That's a happy bunch of Negroes when she told us this.

"Late in that evenin' the Negroes in Huntsville starts hollerin' and shoutin' and one gal was
hollerin' loud and a white man come ridin' on a hoss and leans over and cut that gal nearly
half in two and a covered wagon come along and picks her up and we never heared nothin' more.

"I married Imogene, a homely weddin' 'fore the war. We didn't have much to-do at our weddin'.
I asks missis if I could have Imogene and she says yes and that's all they was to our weddin'.
We had three boys and three gals, and Imogene died 'bout twenty years ago and I been livin'
with one child and 'nother. I gits a little pension from the gov'ment and does small jobs round
for the white people.

"I 'lieve they ought to have gived us somethin' when we was freed, but they turned us out to
graze or starve. Most of the white people turned the Negroes slam loose. We stayed a year with
missis and then she married and her husband had his own workers and told us to git out. We
worked for twenty and thirty cents a day then, and I fin'ly got a place with Dr. L.J. Conroe.
But after the war the Negro had a hard struggle, 'cause he was turned loose jus' like he came
into the world and no education or 'sperience.

"If the Negro wanted to vote the Klu Kluxes was right there to keep him from votin'. Negroes
was 'fraid to git out and try to 'xert they freedom. They'd ride up by a Negro and shoot him
jus' like a wild hawg and never a word said or done 'bout it.

"I's farmed and makin' a livin' is 'bout all. I come over here in Madison County and rents
from B.F. Young, clost to Midway and gits me a few cows. I been right round here ever since.
I lives round with my chillen now, 'cause I's gittin' too old to work.

"This young bunch of Negroes is all right some ways, but they won't tell the truth. They isn't
raised like the white folks raised us. If we didn't tell the truth our massa'd tear us all
to pieces. Of course, they is educated now and can get 'most any kind of work, some of them,
what we couldn't.

420052

     ELIZA HOLMAN, 82, was born a slave of the Rev. John Applewhite,
     near Clinton, Mississippi. In 1861 they came to Texas, settling
     near Decatur. This is made good by experience, which can from the ashes
     of a plant revive the plant, and from its cinders recall it into its stalk
and leaves again.<67> What the art of man can do in these inferior
pieces, what blasphemy is it to affirm the finger of God cannot do
in those more perfect and sensible structures?

This is that mystical philosophy, from whence no true scholar becomes an atheist, but from the visible
effects of nature grows up a real divine, and beholds not in a dream,
as Ezekiel, but in an ocular and visible object, the types of his
resur- rection.

<i>Sect.</i> 49.--Now, the necessary mansions of our restored selves
are those two contrary and incompatible places we call heaven and
hell.

To define them, or strictly to determine what and
where these are, surpasseth my divinity. That elegant apostle, which
seemed to have a glimpse of heaven, hath left but a negative descrip- tion
thereof; which "neither eye hath seen, nor ear hath heard, nor can
enter into the heart of man:" he was translated out of himself to
behold it; but, being re- turned into himself, could not express it.

Saint John's description by emeralds, chrysolites, and precious stones, is too weak to express
the material heaven we behold. Briefly, therefore, where the soul hath
the full measure and complement of happiness; where the boundless appetite
of that spirit remains completely satisfied that it can neither desire addition
nor alteration; that, I think, is truly heaven: and this can only be in
the enjoyment of that essence, whose infinite goodness is able to
terminate the desires of itself, and the unsatiable wishes of ours.

Wherever God will thus manifest him- self, there is heaven, though within
the circle of this sensible world.

Thus, the soul of man may be in heaven anywhere, even within the limits of his own proper body;
and when it ceaseth to live in the body it may remain in its own soul, that is, its Creator. And thus
we may say that Saint Paul, whether in the body or out of the body, was yet in heaven. To place
it in the empyreal, or beyond the tenth sphere, is to forget the world's destruction;
for when this sensible world shall be destroyed, all shall then be
here as it is now there, an empyreal heaven, a <i>quasi</i> vacuity; when
to ask where heaven is, is to demand where the presence of God is,
or where we have the glory of that happy vision.

Moses, that was bred up in all the learning of the Egyptians, committed a gross absurdity in philo- sophy,
when with these eyes of flesh he desired to see God, and petitioned his Maker, that is truth
itself, to a contra- diction. Those that imagine heaven and hell neighbours, and conceive a vicinity
between those two extremes, upon consequence of the parable, where
Dives discoursed with Lazarus, in Abraham's bosom, do too grossly con- ceive
of those glorified creatures, whose eyes shall easily out-see the
sun, and behold without perspective the extremest distances: for if there
shall be, in our glori- fied eyes, the faculty of sight and reception
of objects, I could think the visible species there to be in as un- limitable
a way as now the intellectual.

I grant that two bodies placed beyond the tenth sphere, or in a vacuity,
according to Aristotle's philosophy, could not behold each other, because
there wants a body or medium to hand and transport the visible rays
of the object unto the sense; but when there shall be a general defect
of either medium to convey, or light to prepare and dispose that medium,
and yet a perfect vision, we must suspend the rules of our philosophy,
and make all good by a more absolute piece of opticks.

<i>Sect.</i> 50.--I cannot tell how to say that fire is the essence
of hell; I know not what to make of purgatory, or conceive a flame
that can either prey upon, or purify the substance of a soul.

Those flames of sulphur, men- tioned in the scriptures, I take not to be understood of this present
hell, but of that to come, where fire shall make up the complement of
our tortures, and have a body or subject whereon to manifest its tyranny. Some
who have had the honour to be textuary in divinity are of opinion it shall
be the same specifical fire with ours. This is hard to conceive, yet can
I make good how even that may prey upon our bodies, and yet not
consume us: for in this material world, there are bodies that persist
invincible in the powerfulest flames; and though, by the action of
fire, they fall into ignition and liquation, yet will they never suffer
a destruction.

I would gladly know how Moses, with an actual fire, calcined or burnt the golden calf into powder:
for that mystical metal of gold, whose solary and celestial nature
I admire, ex- posed unto the violence of fire, grows only hot, and liquefies,
but consumeth not; so when the consumable and volatile pieces of our
bodies shall be refined into a more impregnable and fixed temper,
like gold, though they suffer from the action of flames, they shall never
perish, but lie immortal in the arms of fire.

And surely, if this
flame must suffer only by the action of this element, there will many
bodies escape; and not only heaven, but earth will not be at an end,
but rather a beginning.

For at present it is not earth, but a composition of fire, water, earth, and air; but at that time,
spoiled of these ingredients, it shall appear in a substance more like itself, its ashes. Philosophers
that opinioned the world's destruction by fire, did never dream of
annihilation, which is beyond the power of sublunary causes; for the
last and proper action of that element is but vitrification, or a
reduction of a body into glass; and therefore some of our chymicks
facetiously affirm, that, at the last fire, all shall be crystalized
and reverberated into glass, which is the utmost action of that element.

Nor need we fear this term, annihilation, or wonder that God will destroy the works of his crea- tion: for
man subsisting, who is, and will then truly appear, a microcosm, the world cannot be said to
be destroyed. For the eyes of God, and perhaps also of our glorified
selves, shall as really behold and contem- plate the world, in its epitome
or contracted essence, as now it doth at large and in its dilated substance. In the seed
of a plant, to the eyes of God, and to the under- standing of man, there exists,
though in an invisible way, the perfect leaves, flowers, and fruit thereof;
for things that are in <i>posse</i> to the sense, are actually existent to
the understanding. Thus God beholds all things, who contemplates as
fully his works in their epitome as in their full volume, and beheld as
amply the whole world, in that little compendium of the sixth day, as in
the scattered and dilated pieces of those five before.

<i>Sect.</i> 51.--Men commonly set forth the torments of hell by fire,
and the extremity of corporal afflictions, and describe hell in the
same method that Mahomet doth heaven.

This indeed makes a noise, and drums in popular ears: but if this be the terrible piece thereof,
it is not worthy to stand in diameter with heaven, whose happiness consists
in that part that is best able to com- prehend it, that immortal essence,
that translated divinity and colony of God, the soul.

Surely,
though we place hell under earth, the devil's walk and purlieu is about it. Men speak too popularly
who place it in those flaming mountains, which to grosser apprehensions re- present hell. The heart of
man is the place the devils dwell in; I feel sometimes a hell within myself; Lucifer
keeps his court in my breast; Legion is revived in me. There are as many hells
as Anaxagoras<68> conceited worlds. There was more than one hell in
Magdalene, when there were seven devils; for every devil is an hell unto himself,<69>
he holds enough of torture in his own <i>ubi</i>; and needs not the
misery of cir- cumference to afflict him: and thus, a distracted con- science
here is a shadow or introduction unto hell here- after.

Who can but pity the merciful intention of those hands that do destroy themselves? The devil, were
it in his power, would do the like; which being im- possible, his miseries are endless, and he suffers
most in that attribute wherein he is impassible, his im- mortality.

<i>Sect.</i> 52.--I thank God, and with joy I mention it, I was never afraid
of hell, nor ever grew pale at the description of that place. I have
so fixed my contempla- tions on heaven, that I have almost forgot the idea
of hell; and am afraid rather to lose the joys of the one, than endure the
misery of the other: to be deprived of them is a perfect hell, and
needs methinks no addition to complete our afflictions.

That terrible term hath never detained me from sin, nor do I owe any good action to the name
thereof. I fear God, yet am not afraid of him; his mercies make me ashamed of my sins, before his
judgments afraid thereof: these are the forced and secondary method
of his wisdom, which he useth but as the last remedy, and upon provocation;--
a course rather to deter the wicked, than incite the virtuous to his
worship.

I can hardly think there was ever any scared into heaven: they go
the fairest way to heaven that would serve God without a hell: other
mercenaries, that crouch unto him in fear of hell, though they term
themselves the servants, are indeed but the slaves, of the Almighty.

<i>Sect.</i>
53.--And to be true, and speak my soul, when I survey the occurrences
of my life, and call into account the finger of God, I can perceive
nothing but an abyss and mass of mercies, either in general to mankind,
or in particular to myself.

And, whether out of the prejudice of my affection, or an inverting and partial conceit of his mercies,
I know not,--but those which others term crosses, afflictions, judgments, misfortunes, to me,
who inquire further into them than their visible effects, they both appear, and in event have
ever proved, the secret and dissembled favours of his affection.
It is a singular piece of wisdom to apprehend truly, and without passion,
the works of God, and so well to distinguish his justice from his mercy
as not to miscall those noble attributes; yet it is likewise an honest
piece of logick so to dispute and argue the proceedings of God as
to distinguish even his judgments into mercies.

  For God is merciful unto all, because better
  to the worst than the best deserve; and to say he
  punisheth none in this world, though it be a paradox,
  is no absurdity. To one that hath
  com- mitted murder, if the judge should
  only ordain a fine, it were a madness to call this
  a punishment, and to re- pine at the sentence, rather than admire the clemency
of the judge. Thus, our offences being mortal, and deserving not only death
but damnation, if the goodness of God be content to traverse and pass
them over with a loss, misfortune, or disease; what frenzy were it
to term this a punishment, rather than an extremity of mercy, and
to groan under the rod of his judgments rather than admire the sceptre
of his mercies!

There- fore to adore, honour, and admire him, is a debt of gratitude
due from the obligation of our nature, states, and conditions: and with these
thoughts he that knows them best will not deny that I adore him.

That I obtain heaven,
and the bliss thereof, is accidental, and not the intended work of
my devotion; it being a felicity I can neither think to deserve nor
scarce in modesty to expect.

For these two ends
of us all, either as rewards or punishments, are mercifully ordained
and disproportionably disposed unto our actions; the one being so far beyond
our deserts, the other so infinitely below our demerits.

<i>Sect.</i> 54.--There is no salvation to those that believe not in
Christ; that is, say some, since his nativity, and, as divinity affirmeth,
before also; which makes me much apprehend the end of those honest
worthies and philosophers which died before his incarnation.

It is hard to place those souls in hell, whose worthy lives do teach
us virtue on earth. Methinks, among those many subdivisions of hell, there
might have been one limbo left for these. What a strange vision will it be to
see their poetical fictions converted into verities, and their imagined
and fancied furies into real devils! How strange to them will sound the
history of Adam, when they shall suffer for him they never heard of!

     
     

When they who derive their genealogy from the gods, shall know they are the unhappy issue of sinful
man! It is an insolent part of reason, to controvert the works of God, or question the justice
of his proceedings.

Could humility teach others, as it hath instructed me, to con- template the infinite and incomprehensible
distance be- twixt the Creator and the creature; or did we seriously
perpend that one simile of St Paul, "shall the vessel say to the
potter, why hast thou made me thus?" it would prevent these arrogant
disputes of reason: nor would we argue the definitive sentence of
God, either to heaven or hell.

Men that live according to the right rule and law of reason, live but in their own kind, as beasts do in
theirs; who justly obey the prescript of their natures, and therefore cannot
reasonably demand a reward of their actions, as only obeying the natural
dictates of their reason. It will, therefore, and must, at last appear,
that all salvation is through Christ; which verity, I fear, these
great examples of virtue must con- firm, and make it good how the perfectest
actions of earth have no title or claim unto heaven.

<i>Sect.</i> 55.--Nor truly do I think the lives of these, or of any
other, were ever correspondent, or in all points conformable, unto
their doctrines.

It is evident that Aristotle transgressed the rule of his own ethicks;<70> the stoicks, that condemn
passion, and command a man to laugh in Phalaris's<71> bull, could not endure without a groan a fit of the
stone or colick. The scepticks, that affirmed they knew nothing,<72>
even in that opinion con- fute themselves, and thought they knew more
than all the world beside.

Diogenes I hold to be the most vain- glorious man of his time, and more ambitious
in refus- ing all honours, than Alexander in rejecting none. Vice and
the devil put a fallacy upon our reasons; and, provoking us too hastily
to run from it, entangle and profound us deeper in it. The duke of Venice, that
weds himself unto the sea, by a ring of gold,<73> I will not accuse
of prodigality, because it is a solemnity of good use and consequence
in the state: but the philoso- pher, that threw his money into the sea to avoid
avarice, was a notorious prodigal.<74> There is no road or ready way to virtue;
it is not an easy point of art to dis- entangle ourselves from this riddle
or web of sin. To perfect virtue, as to religion, there is required a <i>panoplia</i>,
or complete armour; that whilst we lie at close ward against one vice, we lie
not open to the veney<75> of another. And indeed wiser discretions, that
have the thread of reason to conduct them, offend without a pardon;
whereas under heads may stumble without dishonour.

There go so many circumstances to piece up one good action, that it
is a lesson to be good, and we are forced to be virtuous by the book.
Again, the practice of men holds not an equal pace, yea and often
runs counter to their theory; we naturally know what is good, but
naturally pursue what is evil: the rhetorick wherewith I persuade
another cannot persuade myself.

There is a depraved appetite in us, that will with patience hear the learned instructions of reason, but yet
perform no further than agrees to its own irregular humour. In brief, we all are monsters; that is,
a com- position of man and beast: wherein we must endeavour to be
as the poets fancy that wise man, Chiron; that is, to have the region
of man above that of beast, and sense to sit but at the feet of reason.
 All I has is $8.00 de month and I's glad to git dat, but it
won't even buy food. On sich 'mount, there am no way to stinch myself and pinch off de payments
on de house. Dat am de worryment.

420021

     ALICE HOUSTON, pioneer nurse and midwife on whom many San Angeloans
     have relied for years, was born October 22, 1859. She was a slave
     of Judge Jim Watkins on his small plantation in Hays County, near
     San Marcos, Texas and served as house girl to her mistress, Mrs.
     Lillie Watkins for many years after the Civil War. At Mrs. Watkins'
     death she came with her husband, Jim Houston, to San Angelo, Texas
     where she has continued her services as nurse to white families to
     the present time.

Alice relates her slave day experiences as follows:

"I was jes' a little chile when dat Civil War broke out and I's had de bes' white folks in
de world. My ole mistress she train me for her house girl and nurse maid. Dat's whar I's gits
so many good ideas fer nursin'.

"My mother's name was Mariah Watkins an' my father was named Henry Watkins. He would go out
in de woods on Sat'day nights and ketch 'possums and bring dem home and bake 'em wid taters.
Dat was de best eatin' we had. This melancholly event took place about a quarter before three o'clock
in the afternoon--a few minutes previously to the time ordinarily
set apart for the ringing of the bell for the exercises of Public
Worship.

It was just at the close of a refreshing shower of rain, attended as is usual at this season of the year,
with peals of thunder and flashes of vivid lightening. The Electric fluid seems to have been attracted by
the spire of the Steeple, which--running up from the centre of a four-sided
roof rising in the form of a pyramid--was rapidly conducted by means
of a large quantity of iron used for the security of the timbers, to
the shingles and other combustible materials of three of the corners
of the building, almost directly under the eave. There entirely inaccesible
for some minutes to any efforts which could be made use of for the
purpose of quenching it, and continually fed by the qualities of the
matter with which its work of desolation, with a rapidity which was
truly awful and appalling.

In a space of time too brief almost to be deemed credible by such as were not witnesses of the sublime
and fearful spectacle, the entire roof exhibited to the immense multitude gathered around to
mingle their sympathies and tender their assistance, nothing but one
mighty map of living fire--curling in rapid and terrific volumes around
the still suspended tho tottering steeple; and smiling at every effort
towards extinction, save that of Him--that Dread and Aweful Being,
by whom the flame had been enkindled.

A period of two hours had not elapsed from the commencement of the
conflagration, before the whole edifice except the walls, was involved
in one shapeless mass of smoking ruin, presenting a scene, as desolating
and repulsive to the common citizen, as it was tearful and heart-rending
to the church and congregation.

Our holy and beautiful house where our fathers praised the Lord--to use the language of the Prophet,--was thus
burned up with fire; and all our pleasant things laid waste.

With the exception of the lamps, a venerable clock in front of the Gallery
opposite, the pulpit, the books and cushions, a part of the windows,
the Stoves, a large proportion of the pipes of a Splendid Organ which
was split open with an axe for that purpose, and some of the plank
broken from the pews--all was destroyed; and but for the real and
practical sympathy of many of our esteemed citizens in braving dangers
of no common magnitude, a like destruction had been the fate of these
also.

The house had been standing for more than 63 years--the steeple and galleries
had been built somewhat later--and except the Episcopal church on Washington
Street, generally known by the name of "Christ's Church"--was the
oldest of all the ten places of religious worship in town.

For many years its bell was the only Church-going signal within the limits of the corporation; and owing
to this circumstance, connected with its peculiarly clear and inviting tones, the destruction of it--which
was caused by its fall from so lofty an eminence--seemed the occasion of
regrets to the public at large, more immediately expressed than for the
edifice itself. To the congregation, no loss besides the house, was
more deeply deplored than that of the large and richly toned Organ.

Not only because of its superior worth as an Instrument of Music, the
difficulty of replacing it by another, and the sacred uses to which it
was applied, but equally because it had been presented by a few venerated
and much esteemed individuals, most of whom are now sleeping in the
dust.

For several years, there had been an Insurance effected on the building
to the amount of five thousand dollars--two thousand five hundred
on each of the Offices in town.

But it so happened in providence, that one of these Policies, which had expired about four or
five months previous, had never been renewed;--so that with the exception of twenty-five hundred dollars,
the loss to the congregation was total.

Yet there was one circumstance which ought to be recorded with emotions of adoring gratitude. The calamity
took place at a time when on ordinary occasions, some individuals would
have been in the house--as it was so near the hour of the afternoon's
service,--and had that been the case now, there is much reason to fear,
that it would have been attended, if not with loss of life, at any
rate with serious injury to not a few.

But it had been so ordered by Infinite Wisdom no doubt, that, for the
first Sabbath in more than two years, the Church was closed during the whole of
that day--the Pastor having been providentially called away to supply
the pulpit of a sick brother in the neighboring city of Georgetown.

So that no individual was in the house, and no serious injury occurred
to any individual during the progress of the fire--and thus, while there is
much to produce sadness and to call for deep humiliation before God,
the Session would feel, that there is still something to awaken emotions
of gratitude and praise; and that however severely the loss may be
felt, yet it has not been unattended with significant expressions
of kindness and regard.

Dr. Harrison's lamentations, while justified, were not for complete
demolition.

In the minutes of the trustees, the fact is stated that the roof and cupola
burned and fell in, destroying much of the interior woodwork, but not
all. The walls and part of the galleries remained intact, Dr. Muir's
tablet was uninjured, many windows were not broken, and the organ,
at first thought destroyed, was very little injured; it remains in
use to this day, and likewise the old clock.

However,
the damage was terrific and there was only a nominal insurance to
cover the loss.

Part of the congregation wished a new building site and it was given some thought,
but the "siller" [silver] was found to be inadequate for the purpose.
The amount in the treasury did cover the cost of restoration, and
on April 5, 1836, it was "Resolved, That the congregation of the Church
be called to meet at the Lecture room on Friday evening next at 1/2 past
7 o'clock, to decide permanently on the location of the Church."[131]
In November the committee minutes recorded that "The location of the
Church was permanently fixed on the old site,"[132] and on February
7, 1837, "Mr. Smith, from the committee appointed to consult on the propriety
of lowering the gallery, reported that it was thought to be inexpedient
to do so."[133] The final notation on the new church read: "It was, on
Motion Resolved that our New house of worship, be solemnly Dedicated
to the Worship of Almighty God on the last Sabbath of July next--it
being on that day two years before, that our former house of worship
was consumed by fire...."[134]

It is distressing to think of the
eighteenth century interior destroyed on that hot afternoon of July
1835, but we must be grateful for what the rebuilders of 1837 preserved
as an outstanding example of Georgian architecture.

In 1843
the tower was added: it was in the approximate location that the pulpit
had stood for many years. In 1853 the front vestibule was constructed.

Dr.
Harrison was a delicate man and for a long time his health was far from
good.

In 1848 he was so wretched that it was recommended he go south for his
health.

     The firm of Lambert & McKenzie offered Dr. Harrison
     
     a free passage to and from the Barbados on the barque Archibald Gracie. The minutes
     of the committee record the motion of appreciation
     
to the owners.

Mr. Robert Bell of the old printing firm of that name made a gift
of letter paper to Dr. Harrison every Christmas for many years.

In his latter years the Doctor in thanking Mr. Bell always said that he never expected to see another Christmas.
He saw at least three after the first of these communications, for that many letters exist containing
the same mournful allusion.

In 1862 the Civil War disrupted the Church.

Dr. Elias Harrison died in 1863 after forty-three years of ministering
to his congregation and with his death the Church ceased to function
and its congregation scattered.

During the Battle of Bull Run, it was used as a hospital for wounded soldiers,
and from time to time it was used by other faiths, including a Negro
Baptist congregation. Neglected, uncared for, the prey of thieves
and vandals, the doors were finally closed.

The cemetery lies between the Church and the manse. Here John Carlyle
sleeps.

Cofounder and trustee of Alexandria in 1748; son-in-law to Colonel
William Fairfax; brother-in-law to Lawrence Washington; commissary
of the Virginia forces under Braddock in 1755; collector of customs
on the South Potomac, and major in the Revolution; a Scottish gentleman,
heir to a title, he cast his fate with the colonies.

Nearby lies the tomb of William Hunter, founder of St. Andrew's Society, and that beloved friend and
physician of General Washington, Dr. James Craik. Ramsay, McKenzie, Muir, Vowell, Harper, Hepburn
and Balfour are among the names found inscribed upon the old stones. Their dust makes of this soil a part of
Old Scotland.

Chapter 12

Presenting The Sun Fire Company

In the eighteenth century calamities visited Alexandria, and of these
nothing was more feared than fire. To prevent and control such catastrophes
the gentlemen of the town formed themselves into several companies
of fire fighters.

How and with what means the raging holocausts were controlled is revealed
in an old, mutilated, leather-bound minute book of the Sun Fire Company.[135]
The first entry in this treasure is part of the damaged record for
the March meeting in 1775.

The next page is numbered 9 and contains the minutes for the April meeting. This is evidence that
the Company was formed in 1774 between August and December.

At this March 1775 meeting it was agreed to limit the number of the Company
to forty-five persons. The clerk for this meeting was John Dalton; members
served as clerks in rotation. Absent members were fined one shilling
three pence.

Members were to be provided with two buckets, a brown linen or oznaburg
bag containing at least four yards of material, and a wicker basket as soon as
possible after admittance. These were to be hung up in good order and always
in place. There was a forfeiture of money for any neglect. The Company took
some several months to acquire proper ladders and hooks.

     
     In April the "propriety of purchasing an Engine" was discussed and at the June meeting
     it was agreed to postpone
     
     the matter. Three ladders were then finished but most of the buckets were
at the painters being marked with owners' names and numbers. By August
the ladders had been completed by Thomas Flemming, and John Dalton was
ordered to procure locks with proper staples for securing the ladders
under the "piazza of the Court House."

As the Revolutionary War got under way many of the members were excused,
"being frequently abroad on the Servis of Their Country."

Among these were Captain Valentine Peirs, Captain John Allison, Colonel John Fitzgerald and J.
Windsor Brown.

Unfortunately the clerks took for granted that everybody knew when
there had been a fire and rarely are these important events mentioned
in the minutes. In January 1777, "William Wilson lost a bucket at
the late fire" and he was authorized to purchase another at the Company's
expense; Robert Adam, who was clerk, forgot to "warn the Company
and was fined Ten Shillings"; several members neglected to put up
lights when the late fire happened at Zael Cooper's and the fine was
two shillings.

The next clerk was "desired to Enquire of the several members if they had
candles at their windows and to collect Fines from such of them as
had not."

The light begins to break--at the first hint of fire the Company member must, at the fastest
possible speed, put lighted candles in the front windows of his dwelling.
This was Alexandria's first alarm system! The member then dashed for
four yards of material in an oznaburg bag, two leather fire buckets (they
each weighed as much as a saddle) and a wicker basket and, without
stopping, he raced to the fire, where he either pumped water, formed spectators
in ranks for passing buckets, removed goods from burning houses in
his bag or basket, climbed ladders or pulled down adjoining houses
when necessary; and last but not least watched to "prevent evil minded
persons from plundering sufferers."

The only tranquil occupation was that of the "sentinels" who kept watch over goods removed
from the conflagration wherever such goods were deposited.

What a spectacular sight a fire in Alexandria presented when one remembers
the elegant dress of the day; short clothes, elaborate jackets or vests, ruffled
linen, full skirted coats, perukes, queues braided and beribboned, powdered
heads in three-cornered hats, silken and white hose, buckled shoes;
and that fires generally occurred in winter upon the coldest days and
in the worst weather, often at night, and that these firemen were the élite
of the town, the serious, responsible merchants, doctors, masters,
ship captains and owners.

There was some reward now and then for their efforts. At the April meeting
in 1777, the "Succeeding Clerk is desired to warn the Company to meet
next month at the Ball Room and to Desire the Treasurer to purchase
Ten Gallons of Spirits, and one Loaf of Sugar Candles etc. The Clerk
to have the Ball Room cleaned and put in order."

  
  Alas, the members were either not warned or
  invited for only six showed up. The next month was worse,
  again no warning and only four came. The clerk
  was ordered to warn again and provide what spirit,
  sugar and candles may be necessary for the next meeting and "that
  the same be held in the Town House." The clerk was
  reimbursed "one pound Two Shillings for white washing and cleaning the Ball
Room."

On February 22, 1779, a resolution was passed to fine the clerk refusing
or neglecting his duty forty-two shillings, and absent members three shillings.
There was a fine called the "Moreover Fine," which was increased from five
shillings to nine shillings, and the Company voted to dispose of any sum
not exceeding £5 "when less than 2/3 of the members are met."

  

  
  Besides funds in cash, the Company had 1,000 pounds of tobacco on hand. The
following July the Company ordered the tobacco sold.

On Monday, October 27, 1783, nine years after the founding of the Company,
the succeeding clerk is ordered to give notice that at the next meeting
a proposal will be made to dispose of the money in stock in the purchase
of an engine. Two months later, undaunted by the recent unpleasantness,
the treasurer was requested to "Import from London on account of
this Company a fire engine value from seventy to eighty pounds sterling."

  It took two years for the engine to arrive. Preparatory to its
  reception, officers were appointed for its direction.
  Nine stalwart members were chosen, and they
  were ordered to serve nine months. Six shillings each was collected
from the members to help make up the deficiency, and a committee was
appointed to wait upon the county court with a petition requesting
ground sufficient for building an enginehouse upon the courthouse
lot.

This was granted and the enginehouse was built on Fairfax Street "adjoining
the school House."

  The members were called on for
  a dollar each for this purpose
  and it was later necessary
  to borrow another dollar. Two keys were ordered labeled "Sun Fire Company."

The
April minutes in 1786 contain the invoice for the engine:

To a Fire Engine Imported from London with 2 dozen buckets Amt p.
invoice £ 72.14 Commission on shipping D^o--5% 3.12.

8 Insurance on £76 @ 2-1/2pc 1.18 Freight from London 6. 6 ----------
£ 84.10. 8 Exchange 40 pc^1 33.16.

2 ---------- 118. 6.10 Freight from Baltimore 1. 4 ---------- £119.10.10.

It was incorporated into the articles that the engine was to be worked
for two hours every Monday of the meeting, and anyone neglecting
to attend and work the engine was penalized nine pence.

Moreover William Herbert, Dennis Ramsay and Isaac Roberdeau were charged with getting the engine to fires.

About
this time (1788) the Virginia Assembly passed an act authorizing the different towns in the state
to elect fire companies.

In May 1789, Dr. William Brown was elected treasurer to succeed William Hartshorne.

The first mention by the Sun of other fire companies in Alexandria is in the minutes of February 28,
1791. In July specific reference is made to the Friendship Fire Company
and the Relief Fire Company.

In May 1793, the Sun Company was dissatisfied with the English engine, and they
began correspondence with a Mr. Mason of Philadelphia with the intention
of selling the old engine and acquiring a new one.

Mason manufactured three engines. They contained 190, 170 and 160 gallons of water, respectively,
which they discharged in one minute and a half and they were worked by twenty-four,
twenty-two and eighteen or twenty men, respectively, and varied in price accordingly.
The Sun Fire Company purchased the smallest engine for £125. It seems to
have arrived in April 1794. Later the old engine "with the suction
pipe" was thoroughly repaired by Mason and returned to the Sun Fire
Company.

By 1796 such confusion reigned at fires that the three companies associated
themselves together to make and sustain certain plans and rules for
the management of fires.

It was decided to have three directors or commanders, one chosen
from each company, only one of whom was to act at a time, who were to have
control of the engines, fire hooks, ladders and to be the judges
of the expediency of pulling down adjacent buildings. In order that
these gentlemen be more conspicuous (distinguished was the word)
it was decided to "elevate their voices above the ordinary clamour
on such occasions," each of them in action was ordered to carry in
his hand a "speaking trumpet, painted white, and not less than three
feet long."

     
     
     Each company was to keep such an affair in the enginehouse.
     
     There were then chosen
     
three subordinate directors who had immediate charge of the engine
under the commander, then four persons from each Company, to be called
regulators, who were to "be diligent in searching for the most convenient
source of water, in forming lanes for the supply of the engines,
and preventing the use of dirty puddle water."

Upon
these gentlemen fell the unpleasant task of "noticing remisness in the
members and others and being obliged to give information to their
respective companies whenever such shameful instances occured to their
observation."

Trustees were responsible for the removal of property, and the entire company was obliged to wear "at times
of fire" by way of distinction, black caps with white fronts with
letters thereon designating their company.

Moreover these companies pledged themselves to "respect" the other companies
when their property was in danger from fire, "in preference to persons
who are members of neither."

Doctor Dick stated that he lost his fire bucket at the fire at William
Herbert's house, then occupied by Edmund Edmunds, and the treasurer
reimbursed the good Doctor eighteen shillings on October 24, 1796. Dat am some meat!

"I mus' tell you 'bout dat whiskey and brandy. Massa have he own still and allus have three
barrels or more whiskey and brandy on hand. Den on Christmas Day, him puts a tub of whiskey
or brandy in de yard and hangs tin cups 'round de tub. Us helps ourselves. At first us start
jokin' with each other, den starts to sing and everybody am happy. Massa watches us and if
one us gittin' too much, massa sends him to he cabin and he sleep it off. Anyway, dat one day
on massa's place all am happy and forgits dey am slaves.

"De last Christmas 'fore surrender I gits too much and am sick. Gosh a-mighty! Dat de sickest
I ever be and dat de last time I gits drunk. Yes, suh, dat spoil dis nigger's taste for whiskey.

"Now, 'bout whuppin's, dere am only one whuppin' what am give. Jerry gits dat, 'cause he wont
do what massa say. He tie Jerry on de log and have de rawhide whip.

"Dere am system on dat plantation. Everybody do he own work, sich as field hands, stock hands,
de blacksmith and de shoemaker and de weavers and clothes makers. I'm all 'round worker and
goes after de mail, jus' runnin' 'round de place.

"When de war start, all massa's sons jines de army. He have three. John am de captain and James
carry de flag and I guesses August am jus' de plain sojer. Dey all comes home 'fore de war
am finish. August git run over by de wheel of de cannon truck and it cripple he legs so he
can't walk good. James gits sick with some kind fever misery and he am sent home. Den John
am shot in de shoulder and it stay sore and won't heal. But Charles, in addition to his own scruples,
feared to irritate the prejudices of his Protestant subjects.

He knew that many of his own adherents would deem such a concession
an act of apostasy; and he conjured the Irish deputies not to solicit
that which must prove prejudicial to him, and therefore to themselves:
let them previously enable him to master their common enemies; let
them place him in a condition "to make them happy," and he assured
them on the word of a king, that he would not "disappoint their just
expectations."[1] They were not, however, to be satisfied

[Footnote
1: Clarendon, Irish Rebellion, 25.]

with vague promises, which might
afterwards be interpreted as it suited the royal convenience; and
Charles, to throw the odium of the measure from himself on his Irish
counsellors, transferred the negotiation to Dublin, to be continued
by the new lord lieutenant, the marquess of Ormond.

That nobleman
was at first left to his own discretion. He was then authorized
to promise the non-execution of the penal laws for the present, and their
repeal on the restoration of tranquillity; and, lastly, to stipulate
for their immediate repeal, if he could not otherwise subdue the
obstinacy, or remove the jealousy of the insurgents. The treaty at Uxbridge
had disclosed to the eyes of the monarch the abyss which yawned before
him; he saw "that the aim of his adversaries was a total subversion
of religion and regal power;" and he commanded Ormond to conclude
the peace whatever it might cost, provided it should secure the persons
and properties of the Irish Protestants, and the full exercise of
the royal authority in the island.[1]

[Footnote 1: Carte's Ormond,
ii.

App. xii. xiv. xv. xviii. iii.
cccxxxi. He thus states his reasons to the lord lieutenant:--"It being now
manifest that the English rebels have, as far as in them lies, given the
command of Ireland to the Scots" (they had made Leslie, earl of Leven,
commander-in-chief of all the English as well as Scottish forces in Ireland),
"that their aim is the total subversion of religion and regal power,
and that nothing less will content them, or purchase peace here; I
think myself bound in conscience not to let slip the means of settling
that kingdom (if it may be) fully under my obedience, nor lose that
assistance which I may hope from my Irish subjects, for such scruples
as in a less pressing condition might reasonably be stuck at by me....
If the suspension of Poining's act for such bills as shall be agreed
upon between you there, and the present taking away of the penal laws
against papists by a law, will do it, I shall not think it a hard
bargain, so that freely and vigorously they engage themselves in my
assistance against my rebels of England and Scotland, for which no
conditions can be too hard, not being against conscience or honour."--Charles's
Works, 149, 150.]

In Scotland an unexpected but transient diversion
had been made in favour of the royal cause.

The earls, afterwards marquesses, of Antrim and Montrose had met in
the court at Oxford. In abilities Montrose was inferior to few, in ambition
to none. The reader is aware that he had originally fought in the ranks
of the Covenanters, but afterwards transferred his services to Charles,
and narrowly escaped the vengeance of his enemies. Now, that he was
again at liberty, he aspired to the glory of restoring the ascendancy
of the royal cause in Scotland.

At first all his plans were defeated by the jealousy or wisdom of Hamilton; but Hamilton gradually sunk,
whilst his rival rose in the esteem of the sovereign.[1] Antrim,
his associate, was weak and capricious, but proud of his imaginary consequence,
and eager to engage in undertakings to which neither his means nor
his talents were equal.

He had failed in his original attempt to surprise the castle of Dublin;
and had twice fallen into the hands of the Scots in Ulster, and twice
made his escape; still his loyalty or presumption was unsubdued, and he
had come to Oxford to make a third tender of his services.

[Footnote 1: When Hamilton arrived at Oxford, Dec. 16, 1643, several
charges were brought against him by the Scottish royalists, which with
his answers may be seen in Burnet, Memoirs, 250-269.
 My age am 'gainst me, too, and many de time I's wish for some dat old ham and
bacon on de old plantation.

"First I marries Ann Arrant, in 1898 dat was, and us have three chillen but dey all dead. Us
git sep'rate in 1917 and I marries Mary Durham in 1921, and us still livin' together. Us have
no chillen. Mammy have ten chillen but I'm de only one what am livin' now, 'cause I'm de youngest.

420088

     WASH INGRAM, A 93 year old Negro, was born a slave of Capt. Jim
     Wall, of Richmond, Va. His father, Charley Wall Ingram, ran away
     and secured work in a gold mine. Later, his mother died and Capt.
     Wall sold Wash and his two brothers to Jim Ingram, of Carthage,
     Texas. When Wash's father learned this, he overtook his sons before
     they reached Texas and put himself back in bondage, so he could be
     with his children. Wash served as water carrier for the Confederate
     soldiers at the battle of Mansfield, La. He now lives with friends
     on the Elysian Fields Road, seven miles southeast of Marshall,
     Texas. 

But the sharp morning air, the interest in training a new motor-cycle in the way it should go, the unexpected
popping-up and grotesque salutes of wee gnome-like Boy Scouts, soon made me forget the war. A series
of the kind of little breakdowns you always have in a collection
of new bikes delayed us considerably, and only a race over greasy
setts through the southern suburbs, over Waterloo Bridge and across
the Strand, brought us to Euston just as the boat-train was timed
to start.

In the importance of our new uniforms we stopped it, of course, and rode
joyfully from one end of the platform to the other, much to the agitation
of the guard, while I posed delightfully against a bookstall to be
photographed by a patriotic governess.

Very grimy we sat down to a marvellous breakfast, and passed the time
reading magazines and discussing the length of the war. We put it
at from three to six weeks. At Holyhead we carefully took our bikes
aboard, and settled down to a cold voyage.

We were all a trifle apprehensive at our lack of escort, for then,
you will remember, it had not yet been proved how innocuous the German
fleet is in our own seas.[1]

Ireland was a disappointment.

Everybody was dirty and unfriendly, staring at us with hostile eyes. Add Dublin grease, which beats
the Belgian, and a crusty garage proprietor who only after persuasion
supplied us with petrol, and you may be sure we were glad to see the
last of it.

The road to Carlow was bad and bumpy. But the sunset was fine, and we liked
the little low Irish cottages in the twilight. When it was quite dark
we stopped at a town with a hill in it.

One of our men had a brick thrown at him as he rode in, and when we came to the inn we didn't get a gracious
word, and decided it was more pleasant not to be a soldier in Ireland.

The daughter of the house was pretty and passably clean, but it was very grimly that she had led
me through an immense gaudy drawing-room disconsolate in dust wrappings,
to a little room where we could wash. She gave us an exiguous meal
at an extortionate charge, and refused to put more than two of us
up; so, on the advice of two gallivanting lancers who had escaped
from the Curragh for some supper, we called in the aid of the police,
and were billeted magnificently on the village.

A moderate breakfast at an unearthly hour, a trouble with the starting
up of our bikes, and we were off again.

It was about nine when we turned into Carlow Barracks.

The company sighed with relief on seeing us.

We completed the establishment on mobilisation. Our two "artificers," Cecil and Grimers, had already arrived.
We were overjoyed to see them. We realised that what they did not know about motor-cycles was not worth knowing,
and we had suspected at Chatham what we found afterwards to be true,
that no one could have chosen for us pleasanter comrades or more reliable
workers.

A fine breakfast was soon prepared for us and we begun looking round.
The position should have been a little difficult--a dozen or so 'Varsity
men, very fresh from their respective universities, thrown as corporals
at the head of a company of professional soldiers.

We were determined that, whatever vices we might have, we should not be accused of "swank." The
sergeants, after a trifle of preliminary stiffness, treated us with fatherly kindness, and did all
they could to make us comfortable and teach us what we wanted to
learn.

Carlow was a fascinating little town. The National Volunteers still
drilled just behind the barracks.

     It was not wise to refer to the Borderers or to Ulster, but the war had
     made all the difference in the world. We were to represent Carlow in the Great
     War. Right through the winter Carlow never forgot us. They sent us
     
     comforts and cigarettes and Christmas Puddings. When the 5th Signal Company
returns, Carlow will go mad.

My first "official" ride was to Dublin. It rained most of the way there
and all the way back, but a glow of patriotism kept me warm.

In
Dublin I went into a little public-house for some beer and bread and cheese. The landlord
told me that though he wasn't exactly a lover of soldiers, things
had changed now.

On my return I was given lunch in the Officers' Mess, for nobody
could consider their men more than the officers of our company.

The next day we were inoculated. At the time we would much rather
have risked typhoid.

We did not object to the discomfort, though two of us nearly fainted
on parade the following morning--it was streamingly hot--but our
farewell dinner was absolutely spoilt.

Bottles of the best Moselle Carlow could produce were left untouched.

Songs broke
down in curses. It was tragic.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] This was written before the days of the "Submarine Blockade."

CHAPTER II.

THE JOURNEY TO THE FRONT

We made a triumphant departure from Carlow, preceded down to the station
by the band of the N.V. We were told off to prevent anybody entering
the station, but all the men entered magnificently, saying they were
volunteers, and the women and children rushed us with the victorious
cry, "We've downed the p'lice."

We steamed out of the station while the band played "Come back to
Erin" and "God save Ireland," and made an interminable journey to Dublin.
At some of the villages they cheered, at others they looked at us
glumly.

But the back streets of Dublin were patriotic enough, and at the docks,
which we reached just after dark, a small, tremendously enthusiastic
crowd was gathered to see us off.

They sang songs and cheered, and cheered and sang songs. "I can generally
bear the separation, but I don't like the leave-taking." The boat
would not go off. The crowd on the boat and the crowd on the wharf made patriotic
noises until they were hoarse.

At midnight our supporters had nearly all gone away.

We who had seen our motor-cycles carefully hoisted on board ate the buns and apples provided by "Friends
in Dublin" and chatted. A young gunner told me of all his amours, and they
were very numerous.

The whole of the Divisional Headquarters Staff, with all their horses,
were on the Archimedes, and we were so packed that when I tried to find
a place to sleep I discovered there was not an inch of space left
on the deck, so I passed an uncomfortable night on top of some excruciatingly
hard ropes.

We cast off about one in the morning. The night was horribly cold,
and a slow dawn was never more welcomed.

But day brought a new horror. The sun poured down on us, and the smell from the horses packed closely
below was almost unbearable; while, worst of all, we had to go below to wash and to draw
our rations.

Then I was first introduced to bully.

The first tin tastes delicious and fills you rapidly. You never actually
grow to dislike it, and many times when extra hungry I have longed
for an extra tin. But when you have lived on bully for three months
(we have not been served out with fresh meat more than a dozen times
altogether),[2] how you long for any little luxuries to vary the monotony
of your food!

     
     
     
     
     On the morning of the third day we passed a French destroyer with a small prize
     in tow, and rejoiced greatly, and towards evening we dropped anchor off Havre.
On either side of the narrow entrance to the docks there were cheering
crowds, and we cheered back, thrilled, occasionally breaking into
the soldier's anthem, "It's a long, long way to Tipperary."[3]

We
disembarked at a secluded wharf, and after waiting about for a couple
of hours or so--we had not then learned to wait--we were marched off
to a huge dim warehouse, where we were given gallons of the most delicious
hot coffee, and bought scrumptious little cakes.
     

It was now quite dark, and, for what seemed whole nights, we sat wearily
waiting while the horses were taken off the transport.

We made one vain dash for our quarters, but found only another enormous
warehouse, strangely lit, full of clattering waggons and restive horses.
We watched with wonder a battery clank out into the night, and then
returned sleepily to the wharf-side.

Very late we found where we were to sleep, a gigantic series of wool warehouses. The warehouses were full
of wool and the wool was full of fleas. We were very miserable, and a little bread and wine we
managed to get hold of hardly cheered us at all. I feared the fleas, and
spread a waterproof sheet on the bare stones outside. I thought I should not
get a wink of sleep on such a Jacobean resting-place, but, as a matter
of fact, I slept like a top, and woke in the morning without even
an ache.

But those who had risked the wool----!

We breakfasted off the strong, sweet tea that I have grown to like so much,
and some bread, butter, and chocolate we bought off a smiling old woman at
the warehouse gates.

Later in the morning we were allowed into the
town. First, a couple of us went into a café to have a drink, and
when we came out we found our motor-cycles garlanded with flowers
by two admiring flappers.

Everywhere we went we were the gods of a very proper worship, though the
shopkeepers in their admiration did not forget to charge. We spent
a long, lazy day in lounging through the town, eating a lot of little
meals and in visiting the public baths--the last bath I was to have,
if I had only known it, for a month.

A cheery, little,
bustling town Havre seemed to us, basking in a bright sunshine,
and the hopes of our early overwhelming victory. We all stalked
about, prospective conquerors, and talked fluently of the many defects
of the German army.

Orders came in the afternoon that we were to move that night. I sat up until twelve, and gained
as my reward some excellent hot tea and a bit of rather tough steak.
At twelve everybody was woken up and the company got ready to move.

We motor-cyclists were sent off to the station. Foolishly I went by myself. Just
outside what I thought was the station I ran out of petrol. I walked to the station
and waited for the others. They did not come. I searched the station,
but found nothing except a cavalry brigade entraining. I rushed
about feverishly.

There was no one I knew, no one who had heard anything of my company.
Then I grew horribly frightened that I should be left behind. I pelted
back to the old warehouses, but found everybody had left two hours
ago.

I thought the company must surely have gone by now, and started in my desperation asking everybody
I knew if they had seen anything of the company. Luckily I came across
an entraining officer, who told me that the company were entraining at
"Point Six-Hangar de Laine,"--three miles away. I simply ran there, asking
my way of surly, sleepy sentries, tripping over ropes, nearly falling
into docks.

I found the Signal Company. There was not a sign of our train. So Johnson
took me on his carrier back to the station I had searched in such
fear. We found the motor-cycle, Johnson gave me some petrol, and we returned
to Point Six. It was dawn when the old train at last rumbled and squeaked
into the siding.

I do not know how long we took to entrain, I was so sleepy. But the
sun was just rising when the little trumpet shrilled, the long train
creaked over the points, and we woke for a moment to murmur--By Jove,
we're off now,--and I whispered thankfully to myself--Thank heaven
I found them at last.

We were lucky enough to be only six in our compartment, but, as you
know, in a French IIIme there is very little room, while the seats
are fiercely hard.

     
     
     And we had not yet been served out with blankets.
     

Still, we had to stick it for twenty-four hours. Luckily the train stopped at every station of any
importance, so, taking the law into our own hands, we got out and stretched our legs at every opportunity.

We
travelled viâ Rouen and Amiens to Landrecies. The Signal Company had a
train to itself.

Gradually we woke up to find ourselves travelling through extraordinarily
pretty country and cheering crowds. At each level-crossing the curé was there to
bless us.

If we did not stop the people threw in fruit, which we vainly endeavoured to catch.
A halt, and they were round us, beseeching us for souvenirs, loading us
with fruit, and making us feel that it was a fine thing to fight in a friendly
country.

At Rouen we drew up at a siding, and sent porters scurrying for bread and butter
and beer, while we loaded up from women who came down to the train
with all sorts of delicious little cakes and sweets.

We stopped, and then rumbled slowly towards Amiens. At St Roche
we first saw wounded, and heard, I do not know with what truth, that
four aviators had been killed, and that our General, Grierson, had
died of heart failure.

At Ham they measured me against a lamp-post, and ceremoniously marked the place. The next time I passed through
Ham I had no time to look for the mark!

It began to grow dark, and the trees standing out against the sunset reminded
me of our two lines of trees at home.

We went slowly over bridges, and looked fearfully from our windows
for bursting shells.

Soon we fell asleep, and were wakened about midnight by shouted orders.

     
     We had arrived at Landrecies, near enough the Frontier to excite us.
     
     I wonder if you realise at home what the Frontier meant to us at first?
     We conceived it as a thing
     
     guarded
     
     everywhere by intermittent patrols of men staring
     
     carefully towards Germany and Belgium in the darkness, a thing to be
defended at all costs, at all times, to be crossed with triumph
and recrossed with shame.

We did not understand what an enormous, incredible thing modern war was--how
it cared nothing for frontiers, or nations, or people.

Very wearily we unloaded our motor bicycles and walked to the barracks,
where we put down our kit and literally feel asleep, to be wakened
for fatigue work.

We rose at dawn, and had some coffee at a little estaminet,[4] where
a middle-aged dame, horribly arch, cleaned my canteen for me, "pour
l'amour de toi."

We managed an excellent breakfast of bacon and eggs before establishing
the Signal Office at the barracks.

       

A few of us rode off to keep touch with the various brigades that were billeted round. The rest of us
spent the morning across the road at an inn drinking much wine-and-water and planning
out the war on a forty-year-old map.

In the afternoon I went out with two others to prospect some roads, very importantly. We were
rather annoyed to lose our way out of the town, and were very short with
some inquisitive small boys who stood looking over our shoulders
as we squatted on the grass by the wayside studying our maps.

We had some tea at a mad village called Hecq.

All the inhabitants were old, ugly, smelly, and dirty; and they crowded
round us as we devoured a magnificent omelette, endeavouring to incite
us to do all sorts of things to the German women if ever we reached
Germany.

We returned home in the late
afternoon to hear rumours of an advance next day.

Three
of us wandered into the Square to have a drink. There I first tried a new
pipe that had been given me.

The one pipe
I brought with me I had dropped out of the train between Amiens and Landrecies.
It had been quite a little tragedy, as it was a pipe for which I
had a great affection.

It had been my companion in Switzerland and Paris.

Coming back from the Square I came across an excited crowd. It appears
that an inoffensive, rather buxom-looking woman had been walking
round the Square when one of her breasts cooed and flew away.

We shot three spies at Landrecies.

I hung round the Signal Office, nervous and excited, for "a run." The night was
alive with the tramp of troops and the rumble of guns. The old 108th
passed by--huge good-natured guns, each drawn by eight gigantic plough-horses.

I wonder if you can understand--the thrilling excitement of
waiting and listening by night in a town full of troops.

At midnight I took my first despatch. It was a dark, starless night;
very misty on the road. From the brigade I was sent on to an ambulance--an
unpleasant ride, because, apart from the mist and the darkness, I
was stopped every few yards by sentries of the West Kents, a regiment
which has now about the best reputation of any battalion out here.
I returned in time to snatch a couple of hours of sleep before we
started at dawn for Belgium.

When the Division moves we ride either
with the column or go in advance to the halting-place. I was official lugger-in of men that got wounded, and might have
been called a Red Cross worker if we had had such a corps connected with our company. My father
was head cook for the battalion and between times I helped him out with the mess. There was
some difference in the food served to soldiers in 1861 and 1917!

"Just what my feelings was about the War, I have never been able to figure out myself. I knew
the Yanks were going to win, from the beginning. I wanted them to win and lick us Southerners,
but I hoped they was going to do it without wiping out our company. I'll come back to that
in a minute. As I said, our company was the First Texas Cavalry. Col. Buchell was our commander.
He was a full-blooded German and as fine a man and a soldier as you ever saw. He was killed
at the Battle of Marshall and died in my arms. You may also be interested to know that my old
master, Alvy Fitzpatrick, was the grandfather of Governor Jim Ferguson.

"Lots of old slaves closes the door before they tell the truth about their days of slavery.
When the door is open, they tell how kind their masters was and how rosy it all was. You can't
blame them for this, because they had plenty of early discipline, making them cautious about
saying anything uncomplimentary about their masters. "In this version, which is unquestionably prior
to all the others, we find the Domnach distinguished by the appellation
of Airgid--an addition which was applicable only to its more ancient
or silver plated case, and which could not with propriety be applied
to its more recent covering, which in its original state had the appearance
of being of gold.

"On these evidences--and more might probably be procured if time had
allowed--we may, I think, with tolerable certainty, rest the following
conclusions:

"1.

That the Domnach is the identical reliquary given by St. Patrick
to St. Mac-Carthen.

"2. As the form of the cumdach indicates that it was intended to receive a book, and as the relics
are all attached to the outer and the least ancient cover, it is manifest that the use of the box as
a reliquary was not its original intention. It is indeed, not merely possible,
but even probable, that the existence of this manuscript was unknown to
the Monkish biographers of St. Patrick and St. Mac-Carthen, who speak
of the box as a scrinium or reliquary only.

The outer cover was evidently not made to open; and some, at least,
of the relics attached to it were not introduced into Ireland before the
twelfth century. It will be remembered also that no superstition
was and is more common in connection with the ancient cumdachs than
the dread of their being opened. She lived in New York City and had three sons. A dispatch from the Headquarters Staff of the
Commander in Chief says:

At the beginning of March, (Old Style,) in the principal chain of
the Carpathians, we only held the region of the Dukla Pass, where
our lines formed an exterior angle. She became Mrs. Fitzpatrick. She
wasn't the grandmother of Governor Ferguson. Old Fitzpatrick had two wives that preceded Mrs.
Long. One of the wives had a daughter named Fanny Fitzpatrick and it was her that was the Texas'
governor's mother. The gentle, beautiful chain of hills which encircle Florence smile cheerfully
in the sunshine, clapping their hands and skipping like lambs, if little hills ever did make such
a demonstration.

These environs of the town are like a frame of golden filigree, almost
too fantastic a one for so shadowy and sombre a city.

The green hill-sides and plains are sown thickly with palaces and villas
glancing whitely through silvery forests of olives and myrtle; while
the distant Apennines, like guardian giants, lift their icy shields
in the distance.

The church is built upon the grave of the eminent saint, Miniato.

This personage
was, it seems, the son of the king of Armenia,--very much as all the heroes in the Arabian Nights are
sons of the emperor of China. Having been converted to Christianity, he was offered by the emperor
Decius great honors and rewards suitable to his royal rank, if he
would renounce his faith.

(A.D. 250.) He refused, and the emperor cut off his head. The execution took place in Florence, on
the north side of the Arno. The holy man was not so easily disposed of, however; for he immediately
clapped his head upon his shoulders again, and holding it on with both hands, waded across the river, and
marched steadily up the hill on the other side. Arrived at the top,
he gave up his head and the ghost.

Hence the convent and church of San Miniato.

The church, to an architectural student, is interesting and important. A
man needs a good eye and a good education to feel and thoroughly appreciate
the grand symphonies which this wonderful architectural music of the
Middle Ages has so long been silently playing. San Miniato belongs to the
close of the Romanesque or Latin period. The early Christian school
had expired in the midst of the general convulsions of the ninth and tenth
centuries,--in the struggles of an effete and expiring antiquity
with the brutal, blundering, but vigorous infancy of mediaeval Europe.

During the three centuries which succeeded, there was rather a warming into unnatural life
of the mighty corpse, than the birth of a new organism, capable of healthy existence and unlimited
reproduction.

The Romanesque art seems to have dealt with the ancient forms, without
moulding any thing essentially and vitally new. Where there seemed
originality, it was, after all, only a theft from the Saracenic or Byzantine,
and the plagiarism became incongruity when engrafted upon the Roman.
Thus a Latin church was often but an early Christian basilica with
a Moorish arcade.

The San Miniato has an arcade, of course not pointed, upon the facade
and the interior.

Its tessellated marble work, its ancient mosaics, with its Roman capitals and columns, all make
it interesting.

These last show that at the close of the epoch, even as at its beginning,
the chain which binds the school to the ancient Roman is fastened anew.

The
frescos in the sacristy, by Spinello Aretino, painted at the end of the
fourteenth century, are singularly well preserved,--fresh as if painted
yesterday.

'Tis a great pity that the works of other masters of the same age, Spinello's
superiors, could not have been as fortunate. If the frescos of Orgagna,
and of Benozzo Gozzoli in the Campo Santo at Pisa, were in as good
condition, it would be much more satisfactory.

  
  
  
  

These pictures of Spinello are drawn with much boldness and energy,
but it is not the fortunate audacity of Orgagna.

They are much more the work of a mechanic, not self-distrustful, but
with comparatively little feeling for the higher range of artistic expression.
They are quite destitute of sentiment, but are not without a strong,
rough, hardy humor.

  

The drawing is far from accurate, but the coloring is well laid on. They represent the life and adventures of Saint
Benedict, are of colossal size, and depict the saint in various striking
positions. Here he is portrayed as rescuing a brother friar from the inconveniences
resulting from a house having fallen upon him; in another he is miraculously
mending a crockery jug belonging to his nurse; and in a third he is unsuccessfully
attempting to move a large stone, upon which the Devil has seated himself,
much to Benedict's discomfiture. The fiend is drawn, con amore, in black,
with hairy hide, bat's wings, and a monkey's tail; the traditional Devil who
has come down to us unharmed through all the vicissitudes of the
Middle Ages.

The saints and
friars are generally attired in mazarine blue.

III.

ACADEMY OF THE FINE ARTS.

There is here a large hall, containing
a brief chronicle of the progress of painting from Cimabue to--Carlo
Dolce! There may be a still deeper descent; but that is bathos sufficient
for any lover of his species.

420137

     NANCY JACKSON, about 105 years old, was born in Madison Co.,
     Tennessee, a slave of the Griff Lacy family. She was married during
     slavery and was the mother of three children when she was freed. In
     1835, Nancy claims, she was brought to Texas by her owner, and has
     lived in Panola Co. all her life. He gasped
     
     out a few sentences, almost inarticulate, almost inaudible, before
he reeled in a fit upon the arms of those about him.
     

He was carried from the House; he was carried to Hayes, and at Hayes a few weeks later the great
career came to an end. His last battle was at least heroic.

If his stroke was struck on the wrong side and for a cause his prime
had done so much to baffle, it is not necessary to attribute his perversion
entirely to the insidious ravages of the malady that had clouded his whole
life.

He could not bear to see the country that was in so eminent and so
intimate a sense his country yield even to claims that were conspicuously
right and just at the command of a league between England's rebellious
children and England's enemy, France. There broke his mighty heart.

In Chatham England lost one of the greatest of her statesmen, one
of the most splendid of her sons.

His life was passionately devoted to his country, his career one long struggle against a peculiarly
bigoted, stubborn, and unwise King. Always hated by his enemies, often misunderstood by his friends,
he showed while he lived a steadfast front alike against the enemies of England abroad and those
worse enemies of England at home who filled the throne and the places
about the throne. He was buried with great pomp and honor at Westminster, leaving
behind him not merely the memory of an illustrious name, {187} but a
name that the second generation was still to make illustrious.

[Sidenote: 1781--England and her lost colonies]

The folly of the King and the servility of his ministers resulted in what
seemed to be almost an irredeemable catastrophe for England. Even those
Englishmen who most sympathized with the struggle for American independence
could not but feel a regret that men who might have been among the
most glorious citizens of a great and united empire should be thus
recklessly forced into an enmity that had deprived England of its
most splendid possessions. I works on for the Lacy's more'n a year after slavery till Lewis
come got me and we moved to ourselves.

"I 'member one big time we done have in slavery. Massa gone and he wasn't gone. He left the
house 'tendin' go on a visit and missy and her chillen gone and us niggers give a big ball
the night they all gone. It would give me little pleasure to recount, and the reader, in all likelihood,
as little to hear, the details of my life among such associates.
They are the passages of my history most painful to recall, and least
worthy of being remembered; nor can I even yet write without shame
the confession, how rapidly their habits became my own.

Eugene's teachings had prepared me, in a manner, for their lessons. His
skepticism extending to every thing and every one, had made me distrustful
of all friendship, and suspicious of whatever appeared a kindness.

  Vulgar association, and daily intimacy
  with coarsely-minded men, soon finished what he
  had begun; and in less time than it took me to break
  my troop-horse to regimental drill, I had been myself "broke in"
to every vice and abandoned habit of my companions.

It was not in my nature to do things by halves; and thus I became,
and in a brief space too, the most inveterate Tapageur of the whole
regiment.

There was not a wild prank or plot in which I was not foremost, not
a breach of the discipline unaccompanied by my name or presence, and
more than half the time of our march to meet the enemy, I passed
in double irons under the guard of the Provost-marshal.

     
     
     
     
     
It was at this pleasant stage of my education that our brigade arrived
in Strasbourg, as part of the corps d'armée under the command of General
Moreau.

He had just succeeded to the command on the dismissal of Pichegru,
and found the army not only dispirited by the defeats of the past
campaign, but in a state of rudest indiscipline and disorganization.

If left to himself, he would have trusted much to time and circumstances
for the reform of abuses that had been the growth of many months
long.

But Regnier, the second in command, was made of "different stuff;" he was a harsh and stern disciplinarian,
who rarely forgave a first, never a second offense, and who deeming
the Salle de Police as an incumbrance to an army on service, which,
besides, required a guard of picked men, that might be better employed
elsewhere, usually gave the preference to the shorter sentence of
"four spaces and a fusillade."

Nor was he particular in the classification of those crimes he thus
expiated: from the most trivial excess to the wildest scheme of insubordination,
all came under the one category.

More than once, as we drew near to Strasbourg, I heard the project of a mutiny discussed, day after day.
Some one or other would denounce the "scelerat Regnier," and proclaim his readiness to be the executioner;
but the closer we drew to head-quarters, the more hushed and subdued became these mutterings, till
at last they ceased altogether; and a dark and forboding dread succeeded to all our late boastings
and denunciations.

This at first surprised and then utterly disgusted me with my companions. Brave
as they were before the enemy, had they no courage for their own countrymen?
Was all their valor the offspring of security, or could they only
be rebellious when the penalty had no terrors for them?

Alas! I was very young, and did not then know that men are never
strong against the right, and that a bad cause is always a weak one.

It was about the middle of June when we reached Strasbourg, where
now about forty thousand troops were assembled. I shall not readily forget
the mingled astonishment and disappointment our appearance excited
as the regiment entered the town.

The Tapageurs, so celebrated for all their terrible excesses and insubordination, were seen to be a fine
corps of soldier-like fellows, their horses in high condition, their equipments and
arms in the very best order. Neither did our conduct at all tally with
the reputation that preceded us. All was orderly and regular in the several
billets; the parade was particularly observed; not a man late at the night muster.
What was the cause of this sudden and remarkable change? Some said
we were marching against the enemy; but the real explanation lay in
a few words of a general order read to us by our colonel the day
before we entered the city:

"The 9th Hussars have obtained the unworthy
reputation of being an ill-disciplined and ill-conducted regiment,
relying upon their soldier-like qualities in face of the enemy to
cover the disgrace of-their misconduct in quarters. John and his
     mother stayed with Mr. Chapman for six years after they were freed,
     then John went to Missouri, where he worked for the M. K. & T.
     Railroad for twenty years. He then came to Texas, and now lives at
     315 S. Jennings Ave., in Fort Worth. 

Be pleased to accept of these as the expression of the mindes of our many godly and faithfull Brethren,
whose hearts we doubt not of, neither need you, though their hands in regard of the suddennesse
of this opportunity could not be subscribed together with ours, who
are. De old nurse, Jane, tooks care of us.

