The young man speaking drew in his head from the carriage-window. But instead of sitting down
he turned with a joyous, excited gesture and lifted the flap over the little window in the
back of the landau, supporting himself, as he stooped to look, by a hand on his companion's
shoulder. Through this peephole he saw, as the horses trotted away, the crowd in the main street
of Market Malford, still huzzaing and waving, the wild glare of half a dozen torches on the
faces and the moving forms, the closed shops on either hand, the irregular roofs and chimneys
sharp-cut against a wintry sky, and in the far distance the little lantern belfry and taller
mass of the new town-hall.

"I'm much astonished the horses didn't bolt!" said the man addressed. "That bay mare would
have lost all the temper she's got in another moment. It's a good thing we made them shut the
carriage--it has turned abominably cold. Hadn't you better sit down?"

And Lord Fontenoy made a movement as though to withdraw from the hand on his shoulder.

The owner of the hand flung himself down on the seat, with a word of apology, took off his
hat, and drew a long breath of fatigue. At the same moment a sudden look of disgust effaced
the smile with which he had taken his last glimpse at the crowd.

"All very well!--but what one wants after this business is a moral tub! The lies I've told
during the last three weeks--the bunkum I've talked!--it's a feeling of positive dirt! And
the worst of it is, however you may scrub your mind afterwards, some of it must stick."

He took out a cigarette, and lit it at his companion's with a rather unsteady hand. He had
a thin, long face and fair hair; and one would have guessed him some ten years younger than
the man beside him.

"Certainly--it will stick," said the other. "Election promises nowadays are sharply looked
after. I heard no bunkum. As far as I know, our party doesn't talk any. We leave that to the
Government!"

Sir George Tressady, the young man addressed, shrugged his shoulders. His mouth was still twitching
under the influence of nervous excitement. But as they rolled along between the dark hedges,
the carriage-lamps shining on their wet branches, green yet, in spite of November, he began
to recover a half-cynical self-control. The poll for the Market Malford Division of West Mercia
had been declared that afternoon, between two and three o'clock, after a hotly contested election;
he, as the successful candidate by a very narrow majority, had since addressed a shouting mob
from the balcony of the Greyhound Hotel, had suffered the usual taking out of horses and triumphal
dragging through the town, and was now returning with his supporter and party-leader, Lord
Fontenoy, to the great Tory mansion which had sent them forth in the morning, and had been
Tressady's headquarters during the greater part of the fight.

"Did you ever see anyone so down as Burrows?" he said presently, with a little leap of laughter.
"By George! it is hard lines. I suppose he thought himself safe, what with the work he'd done
in the division and the hold he had on the miners. Then a confounded stranger turns up, and
the chance of seventeen ignorant voters kicks you out! He could hardly bring himself to shake
hands with me. I had come rather to admire him, hadn't you?"

Lord Fontenoy nodded.

"I thought his speeches showed ability," he said indifferently, "only of a kind that must be
kept out of Parliament--that's all. Sorry you have qualms--quite unnecessary, I assure you!
At the present moment, either Burrows and his like knock under, or you and your like. This
time--by seventeen votes--Burrows knocks under. Thank the Lord! say I"--and the speaker opened
the window an instant to knock off the end of his cigar.

Tressady made no reply. But again a look, half-chagrined, half-reflective, puckered his brow,
which was smooth, white, and boyish under his straight, fair hair; whereas the rest of the
face was subtly lined, and browned as though by travel and varied living. The nose and mouth,
though not handsome, were small and delicately cut, while the long, pointed chin, slightly
protruding, made those who disliked him say that he was like those innumerable portraits of
Philip IV., by and after Velasquez, which bestrew the collections of Europe. But if the Hapsburg
chin had to be admitted, nothing could be more modern, intelligent, alert, than the rest of him.

The two rolled along a while in silence. They were passing through an undulating midland country,
dimly seen under the stars. At frequent intervals rose high mounds, with tall chimneys and
huddled buildings beside them or upon them which marked the sites of collieries; while the
lights also, which had begun to twinkle over the face of the land, showed that it was thickly
inhabited.

Suddenly the carriage rattled into a village, and Tressady looked out.

"I say, Fontenoy, here's a crowd! Do you suppose they know? Why, Gregson's taken us another
way round!"

Lord Fontenoy let down his window, and identified the small mining village of Battage.

"Why did you bring us this way, Gregson?" he said to the coachman.

The man, a Londoner, turned, and spoke in a low voice. "I thought we might find some rioting
going on in Marraby, my lord. And now I see there's lots o' them out here!"

Indeed, with the words he had to check his horses. The village street was full from end to
end with miners just come up from work. Fontenoy at once perceived that the news of the election
had arrived. The men were massed in large groups, talking and discussing, with evident and
angry excitement, and as soon as the well-known liveries on the box of the new member's carriage
were identified there was an instant rush towards it. Some of the men had already gone into
their houses on either hand, but at the sound of the wheels and the uproar they came rushing
out again. A howling hubbub arose, a confused sound of booing and groaning, and the carriage
was soon surrounded by grimed men, gesticulating and shouting.

"Yer bloated parasites, yer!" cried a young fellow, catching at the door-handle on Lord Fontenoy's
side; "we'll make a d----d end o' yer afore we've done wi' yer. Who asked yer to come meddlin
in Malford--d----n yer!"

"Whativer do we want wi' the loikes o' yo representin us!" shouted another man, pointing at
Tressady. "Look at 'im; ee can't walk, ee can't; mus be druv, poor hinnercent! When did yo
iver do a day's work, eh? Look at my 'ands! Them's the 'ands for honest men--ain't they, you
fellers?"

There was a roar of laughter and approval from the crowd, and up went a forest of begrimed
hands, flourishing and waving.

George calmly put down the carriage-window, and, leaning his arms upon it, put his head out.
He flung some good-humoured banter at some of the nearest men, and two or three responded.
But the majority of the faces were lowering and fierce, and the horses were becoming inconveniently
crowded.

"Get on, Gregson," said Fontenoy, opening the front window of the brougham.

"If they'll let me, your lordship," said Gregson, rather pale, raising his whip.

The horses made a sudden start forward. There was a yell from the crowd, and three or four
men had just dashed for the horses' heads, when a shout of a different kind ascended.

"Burrows! 'Ere's Burrows! Three cheers for Burrows!"

And some distance behind them, at the corner of the village street, Tressady suddenly perceived
a tall dogcart drawing up with two men in it. It was already surrounded by a cheering and tumultuous
assembly, and one of the men in the cart was shaking hands right and left.

George drew in his head, with a laugh. "This is dramatic. They've stopped the horses, and here's
Burrows!"

Fontenoy shrugged his shoulders. "They'll blackguard us a bit, I suppose, and let us go. Burrows
'll keep them in order."

"What d'yer mean by it, heh, dash yer!" shouted a huge man, as he sprang on the step of the
carriage and shook a black fist in Tressady's face--"thrustin yer d----d carkiss where yer
ain't wanted? We wanted 'im, and we've worked for 'im. This is a workin-class district, an
we've a right to 'im. Do yer 'ear?"

"Then you should have given him seventeen more votes," said George, composedly, as he thrust
his hands into his pockets. "It's the fortunes of war--your turn next time. I say, suppose
you tell your fellows to let our man get on. We've had a long day, and we're hungry. Ah"--to
Fontenoy--"here's Burrows coming!"

Fontenoy turned, and saw that the dogcart had drawn up alongside them, and that one of the
men was standing on the step of it, holding on to the rail of the cart.

He was a tall, finely built man, and as he looked down on the carriage, and on Tressady leaning
over the window, the light from a street-lamp near showed a handsome face blanched with excitement
and fatigue.

"Now, my friends," he said, raising his arm, and addressing the crowd, "you let Sir George
go home to his dinner. He's beaten us, and so far as I know he's fought fair, whatever some
of his friends may have done for him. I'm going home to have a bite of something and a wash.
I'm done. But if any of you like to come round to the club--eight o'clock--I'll tell you a
thing or two about this election. Now goodnight to you, Sir George. We'll beat you yet, trust
us. Fall back there!"

He pointed peremptorily to the men holding the horses. They and the crowd instantly obeyed him.

The carriage swept on, followed by the hooting and groans of the whole community, men, women,
and children, who were now massed along the street on either hand.

"It's easy to see this man Gregson's a new hand," said Fontenoy, with an accent of annoyance,
as they got clear of the village. "I believe the Wattons have only just imported him, otherwise
he'd never have avoided Marraby, and come round by Battage."

"Battage has some special connection with Burrows, hasn't it? I had forgotten."

"Of course. He was check-weigher at the Acme pit here for years, before they made him district
secretary of the union."

"That's why they gave me such a hot meeting here a fortnight ago!--I remember now; but one
thing drives another out of one's head. Well, I daresay you and I'll have plenty more to do
with Burrows before we've done."

Tressady threw himself back in his corner with a yawn.

Fontenoy laughed.

"There'll be another big strike some time next year," he said drily--"bound to be, as far as
I can see. We shall all have plenty to do with Burrows then."

"All right," said Tressady, indistinctly, pulling his hat over his eyes. "Burrows or anybody
else may blow me up next year, so long as they let me go to sleep now."

However, he did not find it so easy to go to sleep. His pulses were still tingling under the
emotions of the day and the stimulus of the hubbub they had just passed through. His mind raced
backwards and forwards over the incidents and excitements of the last six months, over the
scenes of his canvass--and over some other scenes of a different kind which had taken place
in the country-house whither he and Fontenoy were returning.

But he did his best to feign sleep. His one desire was that Fontenoy should not talk to him.
Fontenoy, however, was not easily taken in, and no sooner did George make his first restless
movement under the rug he had drawn over him, than his companion broke silence.

"By the way, what did you think of that memorandum of mine on Maxwell's bill?"

George fidgeted and mumbled. Fontenoy, undaunted, began to harangue on certain minutiae of
factory law with a monotonous zest of voice and gesture which seemed to Tressady nothing short
of amazing.

He watched the speaker a minute or two through his half-shut eyes. So this was his leader to
be--the man who had made him member for Market Malford.

Eight years before, when George Tressady had first entered Christchurch, he had found that
place of tempered learning alive with traditions on the subject of "Dicky Fontenoy." And such
traditions--good Heavens! Subsequently, at most race-meetings, large and small, and at various
clubs, theatres, and places of public resort, the younger man had had his opportunities of
observing the elder, and had used them always with relish, and sometimes with admiration. He
himself had no desire to follow in Fontenoy's footsteps. Other elements ruled in him, which
drew him other ways. But there was a magnificence about the impetuosity, or rather the doggedness
with which Fontenoy had plunged into the business of ruining himself, which stirred the imagination.
On the last occasion, some three and a half years before this Market Malford election, when
Tressady had seen Fontenoy before starting himself on a long Eastern tour, he had been conscious
of a lively curiosity as to what might have happened to "Dicky" by the time he came back again.
The eldest sons of peers do not generally come to the workhouse; but there are aristocratic
substitutes which, relatively, are not much less disagreeable; and George hardly saw how they
were to be escaped.

And now--not four years!--and here sat Dicky Fontenoy, haranguing on the dull clauses of a
technical act, throat hoarse with the speaking of the last three weeks, eyes cavernous with
anxiety and overwork, the creator and leader of a political party which did not exist when
Tressady left England, and now bade fair to hold the balance of power in English government!
The surprises of fate and character! Tressady pondered them a little in a sleepy way; but the
fatigue of many days asserted itself. Even his companion was soon obliged to give him up as
a listener. Lord Fontenoy ceased to talk; yet every now and then, as some jolt of the carriage
made George open his eyes, he saw the broad-shouldered figure beside him, sitting in the same
attitude, erect and tireless, the same half-peevish pugnacity giving expression to mouth and eye.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Come, wake up, Tressady! Here we are!"

There was a vindictive eagerness in Fontenoy's voice. Ease was no longer welcome to him, whether
in himself or as a spectacle in other men. George, startled from a momentary profundity of
sleep, staggered to his feet, and clutched at various bags and rugs.

The carriage was standing under the pillared porch of Malford House, and the great house-doors,
thrown back upon an inner flight of marble steps, gave passage to a blaze of light. George,
descending, had just shaken himself awake, and handed the things he held to a footman, when
there was a sudden uproar from within. A crowd of figures--men and women, the men cheering,
the women clapping and laughing--ran down the inner steps towards him. He was surrounded, embraced,
slapped on the back, and finally carried triumphantly into the hall.

"Bring him in!" said an exultant voice; "and stand back, please, and let his mother get at him."

The laughing group fell back, and George, blinking, radiant, and abashed, found himself in
the arms of an exceedingly sprightly and youthful dame, with pale, frizzled hair, and the figure
of seventeen.

"Oh, you dear, great, foolish thing!" said the lady, with the voice and the fervour, moreover,
of seventeen. "So you've got in--you've done it! Well, I should never have spoken to you again
if you hadn't! And I suppose you'd have minded that a little--from your own mother. Goodness!
how cold he is!"

And she flew at him with little pecking kisses, retreating every now and again to look at him,
and then closing upon him again in ecstasy, till George, at the end of his patience, held her
off with a strong arm.

"Now, mother, that's enough. Have the others been home long?" he asked, addressing a smiling
young man in knickerbockers who, with his hands in his pockets, was standing beside the hero
of the occasion surveying the scene.

"Oh! about half an hour. They reported you'd have some difficulty in getting out of the clutches
of the crowd. We hardly expected you so soon."

"How's Miss Sewell's headache? Does she know?"

The expression of the young man's eye, which was bent on Tressady, changed ever so slightly
as he replied:

"Oh yes, she knows. As soon as the others got back Mrs. Watton went up to tell her. She didn't
show at lunch."

"Mrs. Watton came to tell me--naughty man!" said the lady whom George had addressed as his
mother, tapping the speaker on the arm with her fan. "Mothers first, if you please, especially
when they're cripples like me, and can't go and see their dear darlings' triumphs with their
own eyes. And I told Miss Sewell."

She put her head on one side, and looked archly at her son. Her high gown, a work of the most
approved Parisian art, was so cut as to show much more throat than usual, and, in addition,
a row of very fine pearls. Her very elegant waist and bust were defined by a sort of Empire
sash; her complexion did her maid and, indeed, her years, infinite credit.

George flushed slightly at his mother's words, and was turning away from her when he was gripped
by the owner of the house, Squire Watton, an eloquent and soft-hearted old gentleman who, having
in George's opinion already overdone it greatly at the town-hall in the way of hand-shaking
and congratulations, was now most unreasonably prepared to overdo it again. Lady Tressady joined
in with little shrieks and sallies, the other guests of the house gathered round, and the hero
of the day was once more lost to sight and hearing amid the general hubbub of talk and laughter--for
the young man in knickerbockers, at any rate, who stood a little way off from the rest.

"I wonder when she'll condescend to come down," he said to himself, examining his boots with
a speculative smile. "Of course it was mere caprice that she didn't go to Malford; she meant
it to annoy."

"I say, do let me get warm," said Tressady at last, breaking from his tormentors, and coming
up to the open log fire, in front of which the young man stood. "Where's Fontenoy vanished to?"

"Went up to write letters directly he had swallowed a cup of tea," said the young man, whose
name was Bayle; "and called Marks to go with him." (Marks was Lord Fontenoy's private secretary.)

George Tressady threw up his hands in disgust.

"It's absurd. He never allows himself an hour's peace. If he expects me to grind as he does,
he'll soon regret that he lent a hand to put me into Parliament. Well, I'm stiff all over,
and as tired as a rat. I'll go and have a warm bath before dinner."

But still he lingered, warming his hands over the blaze, and every now and then scanning the
gallery which ran round the big hall. Bayle chatted to Mm about some of the incidents of the
day. George answered at random. He did, indeed, look tired out, and his expression was restless
and discontented.

Suddenly there was a cry from the group of young men and maidens who were amusing themselves
in the centre of the hall.

"Why, there's Letty! and as fresh as paint."

George turned abruptly. Bayle saw his manner stiffen and his eye kindle.

A young girl was slowly coming down the great staircase which led to the hall. She was in a
soft black dress with a blue sash, and a knot of blue at her throat--a childish slip of a dress,
which answered to her small rounded form, her curly head, and the hand slipping along the marble
rail. She came down silently smiling, taking each step with great deliberation, in spite of
the outbreak of half-derisive sympathy with which she was greeted from her friends below. Her
bright eyes glanced from face to face--from the mocking inquirers immediately beneath her to
George Tressady standing by the fire.

At the moment when she reached the last step Tressady found it necessary to put another log
on a fire already piled to repletion.

Meanwhile Miss Sewell went straight towards the new member and held out her hand.

"I am so glad, Sir George; let me congratulate you."

George put down his log, and then looked at his fingers critically.

"I am very sorry, Miss Sewell, but I am not fit to touch. I hope your headache is better."

Miss Sewell dropped her hand meekly, shot him a glance which was not meek, and said demurely:

"Oh! my headaches do what they're told. You see, I was determined to come down and congratulate
you."

"I see," he repeated, making her a little bow. "I hope my ailments, when I get them, will be
as docile. So my mother told you?"

"I didn't want telling," she said placidly. "I knew it was all safe."

"Then you knew what only the gods knew--for I only got in by seventeen votes."

"Yes, so I heard. I was very sorry for Burrows."

She put one foot on the stone fender, raised her pretty dress with one hand, and leant the
other lightly against the mantelpiece. The attitude was full of grace, and the little sighing
voice fitted the curves of a mouth which seemed always ready to laugh, yet seldom laughed frankly.

As she made her remark about Burrows Tressady smiled.

"My prophetic soul was right," he said deliberately; "I knew you would be sorry for Burrows."

"Well, it is hard on him, isn't it? You can't deny you're a carpet-bagger, can you?"

"Why should I? I'm proud of it."

Then he looked round him. The rest of the party--not without whispers and smothered laughter--had
withdrawn from them. Some of the ladies had already gone up to dress. The men had wandered
away into a little library and smoking-room which opened on the hall. Only the squire, safe
in a capacious armchair a little way off, was absorbed in a local paper and the last humours
of the election.

Satisfied with his glance, Tressady put his hands into his pockets, and leant back against
the fireplace, in a way to give himself fuller command of Miss Sewell's countenance.

"Do you never give your friends any better sympathy than you have given me in this affair,
Miss Sewell?" he said suddenly, as their eyes met.

She made a little face.

"Why, I've been an angel!" she said, poking at a prominent log with her foot.

George laughed.

"Then our ideas of angels agree no better than the rest. Why didn't you come and hear the poll
declared, after promising me you would be there?"

"Because I had a headache, Sir George."

He responded with a little inclination, as though ceremoniously accepting her statement.

"May I ask at what time your headache began?"

"Let me see," she said, laughing; "I think it was directly after breakfast."

"Yes. It declared itself, if I remember right, immediately after certain remarks of mine about
a Captain Addison?"

He looked straight before him, with a detached air.

"Yes," said Letty, thoughtfully; "it was a curious coincidence, wasn't it?"

There was a moment's silence. Then she broke into infectious laughter.

"Don't you know," she said, laying her hand on his shoulder--"don't you know that you're a
most foolish and wasteful person? We get along capitally, you and I--we've had a rattling time
all this week--and then you will go and make uncivil remarks about my friends--in public, too!
You actually think I'm going to let you tell Aunt Watton how to manage me! You get me into
no end of a fuss--it'll take me weeks to undo the mischief you've been making--and then you
expect me to take it like a lamb! Now, do I look like a lamb?"

