Look at Fig. 4. If wires are arranged in a wooden frame, as shown, the point where the wires
cross will be the center of gravity if the square formed by the wooden strips is solid. Every
body, no matter what its shape, has a center of gravity. The center of gravity is really an
imaginary point in a body, at the center of its mass. Oftentimes engineers are heard saying
that the center of gravity of a certain object is too high or too low. Fig. 5 shows the center
of gravity in a boat. If the center of gravity in a boat is too high (as illustrated in Fig.
6) the boat is said to be topheavy and unsafe. When a boat is topheavy or its center of gravity
is too high, the boat is liable to capsize. In fact, some very serious marine accidents have
been caused by this fault.

The center of gravity (or center of weight) in a boat should be as low as possible. A boat
with a low center of gravity will be very stable in the water and difficult to capsize. This
is true of model boats just as much as it is true of large boats. The model boat builder must
keep the weight of his boat as near the bottom as possible. For instance, if a heavy cabin
were built on a frail little hull, the boat would be very unstable and would probably capsize
easily.

CHAPTER II

THE HULL

MODEL boat-hulls are generally made by one of two methods. One method is that of cutting the
hull from a solid piece of wood. The other method is commonly known as the "bread-and-butter"
system. The hull is built up of planks laid on top one of another with marine glue spread between
them. The last-mentioned method (which shall hereafter be called the built-up method) possesses
many advantages over the first.

Cutting a model boat-hull from a solid piece of wood is by no means a simple or easy task,
especially for beginners. Of course, after several hulls have been produced in this fashion,
the worker becomes practised in cutting them out.

The construction of hulls on the built-up principle will be described first. For the sake of
convenience, the drawings of the boat-hull shown in Figs. 7 and 8 will be followed out. Before
going further it will be well to understand drawings of boat-hulls; that is, how to know the
lines of a boat from a drawing. By the "lines" is meant its shape. Marine architects employ
a regular method in drawing boat-hulls. Fig. 7 shows the side of a boat and half of the deck
plan. It will be seen that this drawing does not tell much about the real shape of the boat,
and if a hull were to be produced according to the shape given, the builder would have to use
his own judgment as to the outline of the hull at different places. For convenience, the boat
is divided into ten sections, represented by the lines 0 to 10. It will be seen that the shape
of the hull at section 2 will be different from the shape of the hull at section 8. Again,
section 0 will be much narrower than section 5.

Now look at Fig. 8. Note the shape of the cross-section of the hull at the different sections.
For instance, the line at section 1 in Fig. 8 represents the shape of the hull at section 1
in Fig. 7. It must be remembered, however, that this is only half of the section, and that
the line 1 in Fig. 8 would have to be duplicated by another line to show the true shape. The
cross-section of the boat at section 0 is shown in Fig. 9. One half of the drawing in Fig.
8 represents the forward half of the hull, and the other half represents the stern half of
the hull. If the shape of the boat at section 10 is desired, the line 10 in Fig. 8 could be
traced on a piece of tissue paper. The paper could then be folded in half and the line first
made traced on the second half. This would then produce the section of the boat at point 10.
Thus, by closely examining Fig. 8 the shape of the entire hull can be seen.

If pieces of wire could be used to form the lines of the hull at the various sections, it would
appear as shown in Fig. 10 when assembled.

Notice that in Fig. 8 there is a load water-line, which the vessel sinks to when loaded, and
the second and first load water-line, which the vessel sinks to when only partially loaded
or when carrying no load aside from its regular necessary equipment. The keel line of the boat
is the line that runs along the bottom from bow to stern. (The bow of the boat is the front
and the stern the back.)

Motor-boating and marine magazines often publish the lines of different boats, and if the young
boat-builder understands how to read boat drawings he will be able to make a model of any boat
that is so described.

Directions will now be given regarding the method of producing a boat-hull similar to the lines
shown in Figs. 7 and 8, by the built-up method of construction.

First, it will be necessary to procure the lumber. Several clean white pine boards will be
very suitable to work with, and will not require much skill in handling. Let us assume that
the boat-hull is to measure 22 inches in length, with a depth of 4 inches. The beam, which
is the width of the boat at its widest point, will be 5 inches. (It will be well to remember
what the term "beam" means, since the term will be used constantly throughout the book.)

On a piece of heavy wrapping-paper draw the deck plan full size, that is, 22 inches long by
5 inches at its widest point. Next cut out along the pencil line with a pair of shears. Now
lay the paper outline on a plank and mark out the pattern on the wood. Repeat this process
with three more planks. When this is done, cut out the boards with a keyhole saw.

After the boards are cut out mark them as shown in Fig. 11. The space marked out on the board
must be sawed out in two of the boards, to form the inside of the hull, if the boat is to carry
some form of power, such as a battery-motor, or steam-engine. After the lines are marked out,
make a hole with a 3/4-inch bit, as shown in Fig. 12. Insert the point of the keyhole saw in
one of these holes to start it and cut out the piece. Treat the second board in the same way.
The third board must have a smaller portion cut out of the center, owing to the fact that this
board is nearer the bottom of the hull, where the width of the boat is narrower. The width
of the piece cut out in the third board should not be more than 2 inches.

When this work is done, a very thin layer of glue is placed over the boards, and they are then
laid one on top of another. The boards are then placed in a vise or clamp and allowed to remain
there over night. In applying the glue, the builder should be careful not to put too much on
the boards. Too much glue is worse than not enough. It should be merely a thin film.

After the boards have been glued together the crude hull will appear, as shown in Fig. 13.

At this point the hull sections from 0 to 10 must be marked off. By referring again to Fig.
7 it will be seen that the sections 0 to 1 and 9 to 10 are not so far apart as the other sections.
Section 0 is 1 inch from the bow of the boat and section 1 is 1 inch from section 0. Sections
2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8 are all 1 inch apart. Section 9 is 1 inch from 10 and 10 is 1 inch
from the stern. Lines should be drawn across the deck to correspond with these sections, which
can be measured off with a ruler. It will now be necessary to cut some templates, or forms,
from cardboard to guide the builder in bringing the hull to shape. It will be an easy matter
to make these templates by following Fig. 8. A template of section 9 is shown in Fig. 14. It
will be necessary to make eleven templates, corresponding to the sections 0 to 10. The templates
should be cut from heavy cardboard so they will hold their shapes.

The hull of the boat is now placed in a vise and roughly brought to shape with a draw-knife.
After it has been brought to shape by this means a spoke-shave is used. This little tool has
an adjustable blade by means of which it is possible to regulate the cut. When the builder
starts to use the spoke-shave he should also start to use his templates or forms, applying
them sectionally to determine how much more wood he will have to remove to bring the hull to
shape. For instance, when he is working in the vicinity of sections 5, 6, and 7 he will apply
these forms at the proper points occasionally to determine when enough wood has been removed.
This procedure is followed out the entire length of the boat, care being taken to see that
both sides are the same and that too much wood is not removed, since there is no remedy for
this mistake. The builder who proceeds carefully and is not in too great a hurry to finish
the work need not make this mistake.

Of course, it will not be possible to bring the hull to a perfect finish with a spoke-shave.
This can be done, however, by the use of a coarse file and sandpaper. The coarse file is used
to take the rough marks of the spoke-shave away, and the marks left by the file are in turn
removed by the sandpaper. The sandpaper must be applied unsparingly and always with the grain.
It will be necessary to use considerable "elbow grease" to obtain a good finish.

Boat-hulls can also be hewn to shape from a solid block, but it will be understood that this
method involves more work than the one just described. Of course, the procedure of bringing
the hull to shape by the aid of the draw-knife, spoke-shave, and templates is the same, but
the hollowing out of the inside of the hull will be a much more difficult job. However, with
a couple of good sharp chisels and a gouge the work will not be so difficult as at first appears.
The use of an auger and bit will greatly aid in the work. After the outside of the hull is
brought to shape the wooden form is drilled with holes, as shown in Fig. 15. This will make
it much easier to chip the wood away. After the major portion of the wood has been taken out
with the chisel, the gouge is brought into use. The gouge should be used very carefully, since
it will easily go through the entire hull if it is not handled properly. For the beginner it
is not safe to make a hull less than 1/2 inch in thickness. Of course, it is not necessary
to carefully finish the inside of the hull, since it is covered up with the deck and cabin.

The solid hull has one advantage over the built-up hull. It is not affected by moisture and
it is therefore not so liable to warp and lose its shape. It will also stand more rough usage.

