YR YNYS UNYG;

                        OR,

                 THE LONELY ISLAND:

                    A NARRATIVE

                        FOR

                   YOUNG PEOPLE.

                      LONDON:
 SIMPKIN, MARSHALL, AND CO., STATIONERS' HALL COURT;
    GEORGE ROUTLEDGE AND CO., FARRINGDON STREET.

     NEWCASTLE-UPON-TYNE: F. AND W. DODSWORTH.

                       1852.

    Archaic and dialect spellings remain as printed. Punctuation has
    been normalised. Significant errors have been noted at the end of
    the text.

INTRODUCTION.

DEAR FRIEND,

I enclose you the manuscript of which you have so long desired possession. You have permission
to do what you like with it, on one condition, which is, that you alter all the names, and
expunge anything like personality therein; for, as you are aware (with two exceptions) each
character mentioned in the story is now alive, and so few years have elapsed since the events
recorded took place that it would not be at all difficult for a stranger to recognize the heroes
and heroines therein mentioned. Having settled that business, I now proceed to say, that as
the narrative begins very abruptly, you will find it necessary to have some little personal
account of the parties concerned, which I will lose no time in giving you. The mother of the
party you know so well I need say nothing further of her than that she was about 27 when these
events occurred; what her age is now, I must be excused telling, inasmuch as it has nothing
to do with the story, and it is her own concern, and it will too certainly expose the time
of the narrative and other things she wished left in obscurity. Mrs. E., the little mother,
as she is called by every one, was the second in command. A greater contrast to her cousin
could not exist. Short, and rather stout, she trotted by the side of her companion, as the
little hippopotamus by the side of the giraffe. Both their eyes were dark, but the mother's
were soft, and the little mother's so brilliant when she fixed her eyes on you, you must tell
what you thought, as they penetrated into the heart. Her broad forehead showed the prevalence
of the intellectual powers, and the reliance on her own sense and judgment. To be sure some
people called her very masculine, and it is true that, when equipped in her riding gear, and
ready to get into her second home (the saddle), she certainly slaps her tiny boots with her
whip, walks round her horse, examines his legs, and questions her groom as to the throwing
out of curbs, and other mysteries, known as stable lore. The horse has his nose twitched that
she may get into the saddle before the usual kicking scene commences; once there, he may do
what he likes, she is part of her horse, and enjoys his gambols as much as himself. When in
female garments, though somewhat brusque in manners and blunt in speech, she is a true woman,
and as feminine in heart as the fairest and most delicate among the sex. Madame, the governess,
must occupy our attention the next. She was the kindest, best, most loving guardian over her
flock, and seemed to have but one unhappiness in the world, and that was her utter inability
to keep in order and understand one rebellious pupil among them. But I will not tell tales
out of school. Sybil and Serena were the mother's young sisters, 13 and 14 years of age, innocent,
gay, and happy creatures, blessed with beauty and sense above the common lot. Gertrude, or
Gatty, was the child of an old and valued friend. She was about 12, with the wit, the quickness,
the sense of 20, and I had almost said the size, for so large a proportion of flesh, blood,
and bones rarely fall to the lot of male or female at that age. She was alternately the soul
of fun and merriment or the plague and torment of every one about her. She had the judgment
of mature age and the nonsense of the greatest baby in her. The mother alone obtained unlimited
obedience from her. I am afraid I have discovered the "unruly one," but all the characters
shall speak for themselves. The mother's own children were three in number. Oscar, a fine tall
active boy, with a grave quick demeanour, but the open brow and frank sweet smile won him the
love of every one. Lilly, the little girl, was about 6, a little, loving, winning thing, with
eyes like violets, and long dark rich curls floating all round her, from the middle of which
was uplifted a little rosy face, almost perfect in its childish beauty. Felix, the youngest
boy and child, was a little, delicate, spoilt fellow, whose face seemed made up of naught but
eyes and eyelashes. They were all three quick and clever children; and it was partly for the
improvement of the little boy's health the voyage took place, the incidents of which are mentioned
in this book. Zoë and Winifred were two little nieces. The former a grave, little, quiet picture
of a sweet Madonna, and the latter a little, sparkling, merry pet, with the quick action and
grace of a fairy. Madame does not know it, or think we guess it, but Winny is certainly her
pet. Mrs. Hargrave, the lady's maid, and Jenny, the little pet nurse, concluded the females;
while a fine, tall, handsome, athletic gamekeeper formed their only male attendant. Now, having
said my say, I leave you; but you must be answerable for the faults of this journal if you
will publish it; nothing could be more irregular and hasty than its compilation. With this
burden on your shoulders, dear friend, believe me, thine in all pity and affection,

                                                        A FRIEND.

CHAPTER I.

On the 3rd of May, 183--, we embarked on board our pretty yacht, "La Luna," the crew of which
included all the party mentioned in the preceding pages, besides those necessary to work her.
These consisted of a captain, two mates, a boatswain, fourteen seamen, a cook, a steward, and
my son's gamekeeper. Captain MacNab was a remarkably nice, active, bluff, plain-spoken man.
It was easy to be seen that he was not too much pleased at commanding a company composed so
entirely of women and children; neither do I think he would have undertaken the charge had
we not expected Sir Walter Mayton, my children's guardian, and Mr. B., their tutor, to make
part of the live stock. The former was prevented accompanying us by domestic matters; the latter
from his father's death. But we made arrangements for both to join us at Madeira, for it was
not deemed advisable to wait the month it would take Mr. B. to settle his father's affairs
and provide a home for his sisters. The weather was so beautiful it was thought we could easily
spend a month in the Mediterranean, previously to extending our voyage across the Atlantic;
besides I was anxious to see the promised roses restored to my little son's face, and, without
being foolhardy or presumptuous, I could not entertain the least idea of danger. Our first
mate, Mr. Skead, was not only extremely skilful, but the nicest merriest person on board, being
quite as ready to be the boys' play-fellow as they could be to have him. Mr. Austin was the
second mate, a grave religious person, who kindly acted chaplain for us. Of the seamen I need
say nothing, but that they were all picked men. Alas, when I recall that day, and see so vividly
before me all their rough but honest manly faces, and remember the close intimacy that, being
sharers in one common home, participators in all things alike, engendered, I cannot but mourn
over each face as I recall it to memory. In the few months we were together each seemed a part
of the family, and in the sudden severing of our lives and fates mournful thoughts will arise
as to what can have been the fate of those in whom we were so interested. But I must not anticipate,
and, moreover, my task is a long one, and I have no time to spare lingering over the past.
Our cook was a black man, called Benjie, which rather disturbed the peace of the little girls.
They could not think the white rolls were really made by his black hands, and only his extreme
good nature and willing activity caused them to be in any degree reconciled to having a black
man for a cook. He was a very good one however, and willingly would we, many years after, have
hailed his black face and white teeth with the joy of a dear friend. Smart, the gamekeeper,
was a fine, tall, handsome man, of Gloucester make and tongue; he was quite a character in
his way, and the contrast between his fear of the sea, his illness at the least gale, his utter
ignorance of anything nautical was very great, when we thought of his courage, strength, and
skill on shore, in his own vocation. Under his care he had two large dogs, half blood hounds
half St. Bernard, their names were Bernard and Cwmro. But I must describe our vessel:--La Luna
had been built expressly for her present purpose, in the river Clyde; she was of nearly 200
tons burden, three-masted, beautiful and elegant in her appearance, and nothing could exceed
the convenience and comfort, combined with strength, with which she was fitted up; we had a
deck house, surrounded with windows, so that we were shaded from sun and sheltered from breeze,
and could see in every direction each pursuing his or her favourite occupation, and yet losing
none of the beauties and wonders of the ocean; near the deck house were two berths, one for
Captain MacNab, the other for Mr. Austin; down stairs we had a saloon, the length of which
was the width of the vessel, and about twelve feet across; on the upper end a smaller saloon,
or drawing room, the sofas of which made up four berths; the three girls used this room, and
it opened into the stern cabin, where Jenny and the three younger girls slept, and through
which the rudder came; at the other end was a double cabin, which served for my cousin and
me, opening into the bath room, beyond that was the boys' cabin, and on the left hand side
of the stern cabin was Mrs. Tollair's cabin; in the other part of the vessel were four other
cabins, a steward's or servant's room, besides the seamen's berths, here also were two very
excellent deck cabins for our two gentlemen whenever they joined us. We had fitted up the whole
of the saloon with bookcases, of which one was devoted to the children's school books, drawing
materials, and everything of that sort they might require. Our travels were at present not
only indefinite as to time, but equally so as to place. We had a piano and a small hand organ,
which could be carried on deck.

It would be impossible to convey any idea of the bustle, the noise, the confusion, the pleasure,
the novelty that possessed everybody and everything the few days before we sailed. The leave-takings
were the most painful, for having the care of so many who left the nearest and dearest ties
behind them, on a voyage, the singularity of which invested it with a certain degree of mysterious
danger, the nature of which no one could define, and which I now for the first time felt. All
this gave a degree of sadness to the feelings of the whole party as we watched the English
coast fading from our sight. I sat on the deck until a late hour recalling the happy and cheerful
"God speed you" that my mother gave us, the more grave and solemn farewell of my father, whose
foreboding mind looked farther than ours did. And then I recalled the parents of those with
me; the hearty and oft-expressed wish of Gatty's father, high in honours and public esteem,
to accompany us, the tearful farewell of her mother, dear Winny's merry and light-hearted mother,
while her father bid her remember, during her long absence, the lessons of goodness and high
principle he was always so anxious to inculcate in her. My brother and sister-in-law had been
prevented coming to wish Zoë farewell, on account of the illness of one of her brothers. I
could not but think this as well, for her mother's delicate nerves could never have borne the
parting from a child so beloved, and Zoë's leave to come would have been rescinded at the last
moment. Poor child! I know not whether to wish it better to have been so or not. Dear uncle
P. came to wish his daughter, my cousin, good bye, and to promise once more a father's and
mother's care over her two little children during her absence. I could not help being amused
at his sometimes expressing a wish to go with us, and the next minute scolding us for doing
anything so mad. Well, we were off! the last adieus were said, the last looks given, the last
words spoken. We were off! The die is cast, and it seemed strange to me that now and only now
did fearful doubts, and vain regrets, and sad forebodings oppress my heart, and take possession
of my mind. With striking vividness I recalled how, mainly to please myself and amuse my mind,
I had projected and finally carried out this expedition; how I had covered my own private wishes
and thoughts under the plea of the good it would do my little boy, the benefit it was to all
young people to enlarge their minds by travelling and experience, the novelty of the adventure,
and the sort of certain uncertainty which was to attend our steps and ways during the next
eight months, thus giving the charm of novelty and singularity to the whole scheme. I know
not how long I should have dwelt on these circumstances, had not the children come to wish
me their wonted good night. Schillie declared I had moped enough, the girls were eager that
together we should take our last view of England, for the breeze that carried us now so fast
through the water bid fair to take us soon out of sight of land. The young soon lose the painful
feelings of parting; besides, they were so delighted at being really off, they had been so
fearful lest anything should occur to prevent one or all going, so as to destroy the unity,
if I may so call it, of the party, that unmitigated pleasure alone pervaded them. This buoyancy
of their feelings had as yet prevented any symptoms of illness, and I don't think there was
a pale face amongst the party, save the little invalid and Smart, the gamekeeper. He sat silent
and amazed between his two dogs, and, could we have analyzed his feelings, I have no doubt
we should have been privy to most curious and contradictory ideas. Qualms were coming over
him of various kinds, equally foreign to his nature. Probably, for the first time, he was experiencing
fear and sickness at the same moment, and quite unable to understand the symptoms of either.
The boys had not yet found out what made their dear Smart so dull and unlike himself, when
they were so joyous and delighted. We all rose up, and went together to watch the fading land.
Various exclamations proved how much our thoughts dwelt on that beloved shore, and long after
my short sight had deemed it passed from view did my dear girls exclaim, "they yet saw it;
there were still lights." But Captain MacNab wanted his deck to himself, so with cheerful good
nights, the moon being up, we descended to take our first meal on board, and use those narrow
couches at which we were so much amused, and which the children had been longing to try from
the moment they came on board. Such a noisy tea never was, interrupted now and then by a lurching
of the vessel, which was such a new thing to us that all started, some in fear, some in fun,
and some, I must own, with other feelings not very agreeable. The oddity of having nothing
steady on our swinging table, the laughing at the pale looks that flitted across the faces
of others, the grave determination with which little Winny declared "that now she was really
a sailor, she would only eat ship biscuit," caused intense merriment. But ere tea was over
one or two of our party disappeared, and when twelve o'clock arrived Captain MacNab had La
Luna all to himself and his men, for the feminine crew were deep in slumber, caused by the,
to them, unusual motion of the sea, and the unwonted excitement of the day.

CHAPTER II.

May 4.--The next morning there were many defaulters, myself amongst the number. In lieu of
the laughter and joy of the preceding evening, there were groans, and moans, and beseechings
for tea or a drink of water. Sybil, Gatty, and Serena all rose valiantly; Gatty scornfully
repudiating the possibility of being ill. But it was in vain, "the loftiest spirit was lowliest
laid." The little girls rather courted the notion. Being ill in bed of course precluded the
idea of lessons, with which a certain portion of every day had been threatened, and as they
lay in bed thus they discoursed:--

Zoë.--"I really do not think it will be pleasant if we are to be like this all the time."

Lilly.--"Oh, Zoë, I am so snug, I have got a nice book to read, and there will be no playing
on the piano to-day."

Winny.--"Oh! I am very sorry for that. If I did not feel so funny, I should like to go and
play very much. But I am glad we are to have no French. Jenny says Madame is very ill indeed,
and I think I heard her groan once."

Zoë.--"Groan, did you? then she must be very bad. I don't wish her to groan much, but I don't
mind if she is sick always from ten until two. You know mother promised we should do no lessons
after two. Here is Jenny. Why, Jenny, what is the matter with you?"

Jenny.--"Indeed, Miss, I don't know; but just as I was fastening Miss Sybil's dress, I felt
so queer, and I was so ashamed, I was obliged to sit down before all the young ladies."

