161. After Cake is Removed from Oven.--A cake which has been removed from the oven should be
placed on a wire stand on the stove and the steam allowed to thoroughly escape from it so as
to obviate any chances of it becoming heavy.

162. When the Top Cannot be Removed from Fruit Cans.--When the top cannot be removed from a
fruit can, if the lid is carefully pried at one point, so the gum can be caught, the rubber
can easily be removed. It is not difficult to pull the band from beneath the metal cap.

163. Darning.--When darning must be done in the evening it is more easily done if a light colored
darning ball be used.

164. In Pressing a Plaited Skirt.--In pressing a plaited skirt one will gain time and have
more satisfactory results if the plaits are basted before the pressing is done. Clean the skirt
and brush it on the inside. Next baste the seams, cover with a damp cloth and press on the
right side with a medium warm iron. Dampen the cloth, when necessary and press until the cloth
is dry.

165. Stitching Down a Seam.--After stitching down a seam, press with a hot iron, and if no
seamboard is at hand, it is useful to know that a rolling pin, wrapped in a clean cloth, will
answer this purpose equally as well.

166. The Color Meat Should be.--Meat should be red with the fat a clear white. The fat besides
being white should be firm, and suety, and never moist. Good meat has very little smell. Bad
meat shrinks considerably in boiling. Meat which is fresh and good does not loose an ounce
of  weight, but swells rather, when it is being boiled.

[874 MOTHERS' REMEDIES]

167. Sept. 6.] [sidenote b: a. D. 1645. Sept. 13.] cold blood, not the men only, but also every woman
and child found upon the haugh. As the part had formed themselves into a body, and kept the enemy at
bay till their offer of surrender upon terms had been accepted. But then the aprons loudly demanded
their lives; they pronounced the capitulation compact, and therefore
void; and had the satisfaction to behold the whole body of captives
massacred in [sidenote a: a. D.--.

 If a piece of heavy cloth is hung across the tub where the wringer
fastens to it, you will find that it will fasten and hold as securely as to the old-fashioned
wooden tub.

169. To Remove Mildew.--Mildew, if not of too long standing, can be removed by the use of raw
tomato and salt. Rub the stains with raw tomato, sprinkle thickly with salt and lay in the
sun. It may be necessary to repeat the process two or three times.

170. Closed Cupboards in the Pantry.--If there are closed cupboards in the pantry use them
for storing provisions kept in screw top jars. There should be brass hooks for hanging up all
the articles that can be suspended from the walls.

171. Keeping a House Account.--There are fewer reckoning days if housekeepers pay cash. If
they persist in running accounts for groceries and other staples they should have a book and
see to it that the right price is put down the minute anything is bought.

172. Chestnuts as a Vegetable.--Chestnuts have considerable food value. The boiled and mashed
pulp may be used as one would use meat or vegetable, even croquettes being made of it.

173. To Give Starch a Gloss.--A little sugar added to boiled starch will give a desirable gloss
to the clothes when ironed.

174. Apples Cored for Baking.--Apples cored for baking are delicious filled with orange marmalade
and a little butter and sugar.

175. Beating Eggs.--When heating eggs observe that there is no grease on the beater, as it
will prevent the eggs from frothing.

176. If you judge as evil the actions of another, through the judging comes evil to you.

177. A Toy Saw.--A toy saw may be utilized many times in the kitchen for sawing meat bones
which are too large.

178. If a White Dress Has Turned Yellow.--If last summer's white dress has turned yellow, put
it in a stone jar, cover with buttermilk and let it stand a day and night. Then wash well and
starch with blued starch. This is better to whiten goods than freezing, sunshine, or the use
of borax.

[MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES 875]

179. Scorched Food.--A practical cook says: When food has been scorched remove the pan from
the fire and set into a pan of cold water. Lay a dish towel over the pan. The towel will absorb
all the scorch taste sent up by the steam and the family need never know it was burned.

180. Mutton Chops to Make Tender.--Mutton chops can be made tender quite as much as lamb, if
before they are boiled or fried they are allowed to simmer in just a little water on the back
of the stove. This also makes the flavor more delicate.

181. Hollowing Out a Tomato.--For hollowing out a tomato, previous to stuffing, a pair of scissors
enables a person to remove all the pulp without breaking the skin. They are equally useful
for fruit salads as the fine skin which separates the sections of the grape fruit and oranges
is easily clipped off.

182. The Easiest Way to Blacken a Stove.--The easiest way to blacken a stove is to use a flat
paint brush about one and a half inches wide, and a tin or jar, large enough to receive the
brush, to mix the blacking in. Apply the blacking to the stove as you would paint, and use
a newspaper to polish with, which can be burned. In this way the hands do not come in contact
with the blacking during the whole operation, and unsightly cloths and brushes, which soil
the hands, are done away with.

183. Making Gravies.--For making gravies, thickening of roast gravies, it will be found useful
to have browned flour on hand at all times, which can readily be kept in a mason jar or any
covered vessel.

184. Kitchen Mittens.--Kitchen mittens can be bought in several thicknesses and sizes for various
branches of housework. There are thick ones, with straps across the wrist to wear when polishing
the ranges, then there are others to put on when scrubbing the sink or floors, and still thinner
ones with chamois cloth inside to use for polishing silverware. These mittens are a great protection
to the hands and finger-nails, and they really simplify the work to a great extent.

185. To Improve Baked Potatoes.--To improve baked potatoes let them stand in a pan of cold
water for about an hour, then put them in the oven while wet. This seems to steam them and
cook them much quicker.

186. Meat Shortcake.--Give your household a meat shortcake sometimes. Make the shortcake as
you would for a fruit filling, a rather short biscuit dough, and put between the layers creamed
chicken or creamed veal, and have it served with plenty of gravy.

187. Put a handful of coarse oatmeal in the water bottle and half fill with water. Let stand
half an hour, then shake well and rinse. The bottle will look like new.

188. Making a Kitchen Apron.--In making a kitchen apron, provide it with an immense pocket
in which can be carried a large dustcloth. Often one notices dusty places, on the furniture,
windows or banisters while doing the morning work, and the dust-cloth is at hand. Again one
has to pick up numerous little articles to throw into the waste basket and the pocket holds
such articles until the waste basket is reached. It is equally handy for holding a few clothes
pins, while hanging out the clothes; in fact the large pocket is recognized as something decidedly
useful in the kitchen apron.

[876 MOTHERS' REMEDIES]

189. To Make a Neat Buttonhole.--To make a neat buttonhole in thin white material that is likely
to ravel when cut, take a piece of white soap and apply it to the back of the goods using enough
to make a generous coat. Cut the buttonhole and work; you will find that the work is easily
done and the buttonhole will not ravel.

190. To Mark Scallops.--To mark scallops place your thimble or spool just outside the circle
line and mark around it with a pencil. In this way, any sized scallop can be made.

191. Delicate Fabrics to Clean.--Delicate fabrics can be cleaned perfectly by using gasoline
with a teacupful of corn meal. The meal scours out all the spots. Place the meal in a dish,
pour gasoline over it, then press and rub through the hands. Apply to soiled spots, rubbing
carefully. Brush out with stiff brush.

192. When Using a Lap-Board.--While sewing a garment with the material lying on the lap-board,
use glass top push pins to hold the goods on the board. One pin will oftentimes be sufficient. You see
indeed his opinion concerning the place of damned spirits, that it is in the singular region
of the aire, and in neither of these is hee wide, but some more late
and orthodox Writers have agreed with him.

As for the point of hell, many thinke it may be in the aire as well
as any where else.

Confident much, Saint Austin affirmes that this place cannot bee discovered;
[1] but others there are who can shew the situation of it out of Scripture;
some holding it to bee in some other world without’, because our Saviour
calls it σκότος ἐξώτερον, outward darkenesse. [2] but the most will have
it placed towards the Center of our earth, because’ tis said, [3]
Christ descended into the lower substance of the earth, and some of these
are thus true, that this is its situation, that they can describe you
its bignes also, and of what capacity it is.

Francis Ribera in his Comment on the Revelations, speaking of those
words, where’ tis said, [4] that the blood went out of the Wine-presse,
even unto the horses bridles by the space of one thousand and sixe
hundred furlongs, interprets them to bee meant of Hell, and that that
number expresses the diameter of its concavity, which is 200 italian
miles; but Lessius thinkes that this opinion gives them too likewise roome
in hell, [5] and therefore hee guesses that this tis not so middle; for
(saith hee) the diameter of one league being cubically multiplied, will
make a spheare capable of 800000 millions of damned bodies, allowing
to each sixe foote in the square, whereas (saies hee)’ tis certaine that
there shall not be one hundred thousand millions in all that shall
bee damned.

[MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES 877]

199. Drop Table for Kitchen.--A woman can have a kitchen made in a very cramped quarter if
she provides it with a small work table, and a drop leaf table attached to the wall. If the
stationary table is covered on all sides with a curtain and furnished with an undershelf, it
will hold as much as a cupboard. Two large shelves will be found very convenient, even though
it will be necessary to mount a chair or stool to reach the kitchen articles. Usually extremely
small kitchens are more convenient than large ones, in which many steps must be taken.

200. A Convenience for Ironing Day.--The laundress who knows how to take care of herself has
a high stool with rungs for her feet, on which she may sit when she is ironing the light pieces.
It will help reserve her strength for the next day's work.

201. Quickest Way to Core Apples.--One of the simplest and quickest ways to core apples for
baking is to use an ordinary clothes pin.

202. To Remove Iron Rust.--Tartaric acid will remove almost any iron rust blemish from material
and is excellent for removing yellow marks.

203. The Kitchen Apron.--The kitchen apron should cover the skirt and the front of the waist,
though not necessarily the sleeves, as most house dresses are made with short sleeves.

204. Cookies, to Keep.--Cookies put in an earthen jar lined with clean cloth, while they are
still hot, and kept covered closely, will be much more melting and crumbling than if they were
allowed to cool in the air.

205. Discolored China Baking Dishes.--Discolored china baking dishes can be made as clean as
when new by rubbing them with whiting.

206. Care of Drippings.--The care of drippings in the kitchen, with the price of food so high,
should receive more attention. In cooking all meats, poultry, and in making soup the grease
should be carefully skimmed off and saved. Render it out once a week and after a good boiling,
strain through cheesecloth. When cool skim the fat off and use in place of lard,--except for
pie and biscuit.

207. To Mend Rubber.--To mend rubber, use soft kid from an old glove and paste to the patch
the gum of automobile paste. The leather adheres better to the gum than a gum patch.

208. Cleaning Black Woolen Clothing.--The following is a good recipe for cleaning black woolen
clothing: Dissolve borax in water and saturate a sponge or cloth in the solution. Wash the
greasy spots by rubbing vigorously, then rinse in clear water the same way and dry in the sun.
This is especially good for cleaning men's coat collars.

[878 MOTHERS' REMEDIES]

209. To Prevent Tinware Rusting.--To prevent tinware from rusting rub over with fresh lard
and put in a hot oven for a few minutes before using it. If treated in this way it will never rust.

210. To Remove Machine Grease.--Cold water and a teaspoonful of ammonia and soap will remove
machine grease when other means would not answer on account of the colors running.

211. To Keep Cheese From Drying.--Wring a cloth from vinegar and wrap several thicknesses around
the cheese to keep it from moulding and drying.

212. Small Hand Churn.--A small hand churn makes home-made butter and cheese possible. It is
no trouble whatever to make a pot of yellow butter, fresh and sweet, by the aid of one of these
convenient little churns. After it is made it may be rolled into a delicate little pat and
kept in an earthen jar made purposely for butter.

213. Larding a Piece of Meat.--Larding a piece of meat is a simple operation, and it is one
which will greatly add to the juiciness of the dish. Cut a piece of salt pork into strips quarter
of an inch thick and two or three inches long. Slip these into a larding needle and draw the
needle through the meat, so either end of the pork will protrude beyond the meat.

214. To Make Vegetables Tender.--Cutting onions, turnips, and carrots across the fiber makes
them more tender when cooked.

215. Clear black coffee diluted with water containing a little ammonia, will clean and restore
black clothes.

216. To Make Linen Easier to Write on.--To make linen easier to write on when marking, dip
the pieces you wish to mark into cold starch, rub over with hot iron and you will be able to
write without the pen scratching.

217. To Air Pillows.--To air pillows, rip the corner of the ticking an inch or more. Insert
a piece of rubber hose pipe a few inches long, first covering the exposed end of the tube with
strong netting. Sew the ticking firmly to it and then hang all day on the line, in the air
punching and shaking many times during the day. They will be light and fluffy besides being
thoroughly aired and sweet and clean.

218. Uses for Pea-Pods.--Never throw away pea-pods; they give a delicious flavor to the puree
for the next day.

219. To Remove the Skins of Tomatoes Quickly.--To remove the skins of tomatoes quickly, put
them into a wire basket and sink it quickly into a kettle of hot  water. Do not let the tomatoes
stand in the water long enough to heat through, and plunge into cold water immediately from
the hot. Another way is to rub the skins backward with the blunt edge of a knife. In this way
the tomato does not need scalding, and according to epicures is more tasty.

220. Dyeing at Home.--In dyeing at home amateurs often make the mistake of putting the dyed
article through the wringer, possibly to avoid staining the hands for one reason, or perhaps
hoping to dry the garment more quickly. This however, should never be done, for the creases
so formed are most obstinate and in fact, often only disappear with wear, despite all pressing.
Dyed articles should be squeezed and hung out of doors to dry.

[MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES 879]

221.--To Save Children's Shoes.--To save children's shoes wash them occasionally to remove
the dirt and old polish, and soften them with oil. When any part of the sole becomes badly
worn, it should be mended at once, for usually a shoe will wear out at one point more quickly
than elsewhere, and by paying ten or fifteen cents to have that part mended it saves dollars
in time. Gunmetal shoes are preferable for everyday wear, for such shoes are lusterless and
can be cleaned with oils instead of polish, which is destructive to the best leather, even
when sparingly used.

222. A Systematic Housewife.--It is a handy plan for the business woman or the housewife who
has much domestic accounting to do to keep two calendars, one to tear off day by day, the other
to refer back to past dates when necessary. The reference calendar which can be very small
and inconspicuous should have its special hook on the desk or table.

223. To Keep Candles in Warm Weather.--Keep your candles in the ice box this warm weather.
They will remain beautifully upright through a whole evening's use, if they are hardened first
in this way.

224. Tea Towels.--Keep the tea towels in sight, then have them fresh, clean, and whole, and
hang them on a long metal curtain pole, in a convenient place, say back of the sink. This is
better than placing the towels on a nail against the wall as is usually done, and it permits
them to dry out quickly.

225. A Spotless House.--A house that is spotless at the price of the family's peace or of the
housekeeper's best self, is the worst sort of an investment. You, the woman, are of vastly
more importance than your surroundings. If you feel yourself becoming a mere drudge, if your
family is growing away from you mentally, if your nerves are weakening under a fetish of cleanliness,
get time to read.

226. To Keep Flooring in Place.--Strips of moulding may be tacked around the edges of a room
at the baseboard, so as to cover the edge of oilcloth or linoleum. Every man may have his counterplan of ground,
in the cultivation and adornment of which he may realize the pleasure
which accompany the calling in constant communication with nature and
her beauty.'In it there is no corruption, but florist, in which he
is of amateur farmer, horticulturist, or rather badness.'How kindly
nature seems to have dealt with some of the old chestnuts who even
now tread the broad earth, beloved and reverenced by all who ignore
them!



[880 MOTHERS' REMEDIES]

229. Convenient Scrub Bucket.--The most convenient scrub bucket is light, and is made of galvanized
iron with a wide flaring top. The bucket is to be fitted with a wire soap tray on the outside,
for often the soap is wasted while floating in the water if there is no convenient place to
put it, while scrubbing. Holes can be punctured in the bucket and the wire tray fastened on
with a heavy cord or a pliable wire,

230. Fruit Stains on Table Linen.--Fruit stains on table linen should be taken out before the
cloth is put in the wash tub. Soap and water will set the stains.

