ARGYLL, JOHN CAMPBELL, 2ND DUKE OF, favoured the Union, was created an English peer, fought
under Marlborough, opposed the return of the Stuarts, defeated Mar at Sheriffmuir, ruled Scotland
under Walpole (1678-1743). 

I sees too many married troubles to mess up with such doings!

Sometimes the master sent me alone to the grinding mill.

Load in the yellow corn, hitch in the oxen, I was ready to go. I gets me fixed up with a pass and
takes to the road.

That was the trip I like best. On the way was a still. Off in the bresh.
If the still was lonely I stop, not on the way to but on the way
back.

Mighty good whiskey, too! Maybe I drinks too much, then I was sorry.

Not
that I swipe the whiskey, just sorry because I gets sick!

Then I figures a woods camp meeting will steady me up and I goes.

The
preacher meet me and want to know how is my feelings. I says I is low with
the misery and he say to join up with the Lord.

I never join because he don't talk about the Lord. Just about the Master and
Mistress. How the slaves must obey around the plantation--how the white
folks know what is good for the slaves.

Nothing about obeying the Lord and working for him.

I reckon the old preacher was worrying more about the bull whip than he was the Bible, else he say
something about the Lord!

But I always obeys the Lord--that's why I is still living!

The slaves would pray for to get out of bondage.

Some of them say the Lord told them to run away.

Get to the North. Cross the Red River. Over there would be folks to guide them to the Free State (Kansas).

The
Lord never tell me to run away.

I never tried it, maybe, because mostly they was caught by patrollers
and fetched back for a flogging--and I had whippings enough already!

Before the Civil War was the fighting with Mexico.

Some of the troops on they way south passed on the Military Road. Wasn't
any fighting around Linden or Jefferson during the time.

They was lots of traveling on the Military Road.

Most of the time you could see covered wagons pulled by mules and
horses, and sometimes a crawling string of wagons with oxen on the
pulling end.

From up in Arkansas come the stage coach along the road. To San Antonio.
The drivers bring news the Mexicans just about all killed off and
the white folks say Texas was going to join the Union.

The country's going to
be run different they say, but I never see no difference. Maybe, because
I ain't white folks.

Wasn't many Mexicans around the old plantation. Come and go. Lots
of Indians. Cherokees and Choctaws. Living in mud huts and cabin shacks.
I never see them bother the whites, it was the other way around.

During the Civil War, when the Red River was bank high with muddy water,
the Yankee's made a target of Jefferson.

That was
a small town down south of Linden.

Down the river come a flat barge with cannon fastened to the deck. The Yankee
soldiers stopped across the river from Jefferson and the shooting
started.

When the
cannon went to popping the folks went arunning--hard to tell who run
the fastest, the whites or the blacks! Almost the town was wiped out.
Buildings was smashed and big trees cut through with the cannon balls.

Before
the Civil War everybody had money.

The white folks, not the negroes.
Sometimes the master take me to the town stores. They was full of money.
Cigar boxes on the counter, boxes on the shelf, all filled with money.

Not
the crinkley paper kind, but hard, jingley gold and silver! Not like these scarce times!

After the War I stay on the plantation 'til a soldier man tells me
of the freedom.

The master never tell us--negroes working just like before the War.

That's
when I leave the first time. Slip off, saying nothing, to Jefferson. There
I found some good white folks going to New Orleans. First place we go
is Shreveport, by wagon. They took me because I fix up with them
to do the cooking.

On to the Big River
(Mississippi) and boards a river steamboat for New Orleans. Lots of negroes
going down there--to work on the canal.

The whole town was built on logs covered with dirt.

Trying to raise itself right out of the swamp. Sometimes the water get high and folks run for the hills.
When I got there almost was I ready to leave.

I like Texas the best. Back to Jefferson is where I go. Fifteen-twenty mile below Linden. Almost the first
person I see was Master Davenport.

He says, "Black rascal, you is coming with me." And I do. He tried to keep his slaves and just
laugh when I tell him about the freedom.

I worked for food and quarters 'til his meanness come cropping out
again.

That wasn't long and he threatened me with the whip and the buck and
gag.

The buck and gag was maybe worse.

I got to feeling that iron stick in my mouth, fastened around my head
with chains, pressing hard on my tongue. No drinking, no eating, no talking!

So
I slip off again. That night I goes through Linden.

Crawling on my hands and knees! Keeping in the dark spots, hiding from
the whites, 'til I pass the last house, then my feets hurries me
to Jefferson, where I gets a ride to Arkansas.

In Russelville is where I stop.

There I worked around in the yards, cutting the grass, fancying the
flower beds, and earned a little money for clothes and eats, with
some of it spent for good whiskey.

That was the reason I left Arkansas.

Whiskey. The law got after me
to tell where was a man's whiskey still. I just leave so's I won't have
to tell.

But while I was making a little money in Russelville, I lose out on
some big money, account some white folks beat me to it.

I was
out in the hills west of town, walking along the banks of a little creek,
when I heard a voice. Queer like.

I called out who is that talking and I hears it again.

"Go to the white oak tree and you will find Ninety Thousand Dollars!"
That's what I hear. I look around, nobody in sight, but I see the tree.
A big white oak tree standing taller than all the rest 'round about.

Under
the tree was a grave. An old grave.

I scratch around but finds no money and thinks of getting some help.

I done some work for a white man in town and told him about the voice.
He promised to go with me, but the next day he took two white mens
and dug around the tree. Then he says they was nothing to find.

To this day I know better.

I know wherever they's a ghost, money is around someplace! That's
what the ghost comes back for.

Somebody dies and leaves buried money.

The ghost watches over it 'til it sees somebody it likes. Then ghost shows
himself--lets know he's around. Sometimes the ghost tells where is the
money buried, like that time at Russelville.

That ain't the only ghost I've seen or heard. I see one around the
yard where I is living now. A woman.

Some of these times she'll tell me where the buried money is.

Maybe the ghost woman thinks I is too old to dig. But I been a-digging
all these long years. For a bite to eat and a sleep-under cover.

I
reckon pretty soon she's going to tell where to dig.

When she does, then old Uncle John won't have to dig for the eats no more!
Tulsa, Okla.

Iffen I could see better out'n my old eyes, and I had me something
to work with and de feebleness in my back and head would let me 'lone,
I would have me plenty to eat in de kitchen all de time, and plenty tobaccy
in my pipe, too, bless God!

And dey wouldn't be no rain trickling through de holes in de roof,
and no planks all fell out'n de flo' on de gallery neither, 'cause
dis one old nigger knows everything about making all he need to git
along!

Old Master
done showed him how to git along in dis world, jest as long as he live on
a plantation, but living in de town is a different way of living, and
all you got to have is a silver dime to lay down for everything you
want, and I don't git de dime very often.

But I aint give up! Nothing like dat! On de days when I don't feel
so feeble and trembly I jest keep patching 'round de place.

I got to keep patching so as to keep it whar it will hold de winter out, in case
I git to see another winter.

Iffen I don't, it don't grieve me none, 'cause I wants to see old Master
again anyways.

I reckon maybe I'll jest go up an ask him what he want me to do, and he'll tell me, and iffen I don't
know how he'll show me how, and I'll try to do it to please him. And
when I git it done I wants to hear him grumble like he used to and say,
"Charley, you ain't got no sense but you is a good boy. Dis here ain't very
good but it'll do, I reckon.

Git yourself a little piece o' dat brown sugar, but don't let no niggers
see you eating it--if you do I'll whup your black behind!"

Dat ain't de way it going be in Heaven, I reckon, but I can't set here
on dis old rottendy gallery and think of no way I better like to
have it!

I was a great big hulking buck of a boy when de War come along and
bust up everything, and I can 'member back when everybody was living
peaceful and happy, and nobody never had no notion about no war.

I was borned on the 'leventh of January, in 1843, and was old enough
to vote when I got my freedom, but I didn't take no stock in all dat politics and
goings on at dat time, and I didn't vote till a long time after old Master
passed away, but I was big enough before de War to remember everything pretty
plain.

Old Master
name was John Williams, and old Mistress name was Miss Betty, and she
was a Campbell before she married. Young Missy was named Betty after her
mommy, and Young Master was named Frank, but I don't know who after.
Our overseer was Mr. Simmons, and he was mighty smart and had a lot
of patience, but he wouldn't take no talk nor foolishness.

He didn't whup nobody very often, but he only had to whup 'em jest one time!
He never did whup a nigger at de time the nigger done something,
but he would wait till evening and have old Master come and watch
him do it.

He never whupped very hard 'cept when he had told a nigger about something
and promised a whupping next time and the nigger done it again.

Then that nigger got what he had been hearing 'bout!

De plantation was about as big as any.

I think
it had about three hundred acres, and it was about two miles northwest
of Monroe, Louisiana.

Then he had another one not so big, two--three miles south of the
big one, kind of down in the woodsy part along the White river bottoms.
He had another overseer on that place and a big passel of niggers,
but I never did go down to that one.

That was where he raised most of his corn and shoats, and lots of sorghum
cane.

Our plantation was up on higher ground, and it was more open country,
but still they was lots of woods all around and lots of the plantations
had been whacked right out of de new ground and was full of stumps.

Master's place was more open, though, and all in the fields was good
plowing.

The big road runned right along past our plantation, and it come from Shreveport and run into Monroe.
There wasn't any town at Monroe in them days, jest a little cross
roads place with a general store and a big hide house.

I think there was about two big hide houses, and you could smell that place
a mile before you got into it. Old Master had a part in de store, I think.

De
hide houses was jest long sheds, all open along de sides and kivered
over wid cypress clapboards.

Down below de hide houses and de store was jest a little settlement
of one or two houses, but they was a school for white boys.

Somebody said there was a place where they had been an old fort, but I never did see it.

Everything boughten we got come from Shreveport, and was brung in
by the stage and the freighters, and that was only a little coffee
or gunpowder, or some needles for the sewing, or some strap iron for
the blacksmith, or something like dat.

We made and raised everything else we needed right on the place.

I never did even see any quinine till after I was free. My mammy knowed jest
what root to go out and pull up to knock de chills right out'n me. And de bellyache
and de running off de same way, too.

Our plantation was a lot different from some I seen other places,
like way east of there, around Vicksburg.

Some of them was fixed up fancier but dey didn't have no more comforts than we had.

Old
Master come out into that country when he was a young man, and they didn't
have even so much then as they had when I was a boy. I think he come from
Alabama or Tennessee, and way back his people had come from Virginia,
or maybe North Carolina, 'cause he knowed all about tobacco on the
place.

Cotton and tobacco was de long crops on his big place, and of course
lots of horses and cattle and mules.

De big house was made out'n square hewed logs, and chinked wid little rocks
and daubed wid white clay, and kivered wid cypress clapboards. I remember
one time we put on a new roof, and de niggers hauled up de cypress logs
and sawed dem and frowed out de clapboards by hand.

De house had two setting rooms on one side and a big kitchen room on
de other, wid a wide passage in between, and den about was de sleeping
rooms. They wasn't no stairways 'cepting on de outside. Steps run up
to de sleeping rooms on one side from de passageway and on de other
side from clean outside de house.

Jest one big chimbley was all he had, and it was on de kitchen end, and we done all
de cooking in a fireplace dat was purty nigh as wide as de whole
room.

In de sleeping rooms day wasn't no fires 'cepting in brazers made out of
clay, and we toted up charcoal to burn in 'em when it was cold mornings
in de winter. Dey kept warm wide de bed clothes and de knitten clothes
dey had.

Master never did make a big gallery on de house, but our white folks would
set out in de yard under de big trees in de shade.

They
was long benches made out'n hewed logs and all padded wid gray moss
and corn shuck padding, and dey set pretty soft.

All de furniture in de house was home-made, too. De beds had square posts as big
around as my shank and de frame was mortised into 'em, and holes
bored in de frame and home-made rope laced in to make it springy. Den
a great big mattress full of goose feathers and two--three comforts
as thick as my foot wid carded wool inside!

Dey
didn't need no fireplaces!

De quarters was a little piece from de big house, and dey run along both
sides of de road dat go to de fields. All one-room log cabins, but dey
was good and warm, and every one had a little open shed at de side
whar we sleep in de summer to keep cool.

They was two or three wells at de quarters for water, and some good springs
in de branch at de back of de fields.

You could ketch a fish now and den in dat branch, but Young Master used to do
his fishing in White River, and take a nigger or two along to do de work
at his camp.

It wasn't very fancy at de Big House, but it was mighty pretty jest
de same, wid de gray moss hanging from de big trees, and de cool green
grass all over de yard, and I can shet my old eyes and see it jest
like it was before de War come along and bust it up.

I can see old Master setting out under a big tree smoking one of his
long cheroots his tobacco nigger made by hand, and fanning hisself wid his big
wide hat another nigger platted out'n young inside corn shucks for
him, and I can hear him holler at a big bunch of white geeses what's
gitting in his flower beds and see 'em string off behind de old gander
towards de big road.

When de day begin to crack de whole plantation break out wid all kinds
of noises, and you could tell what going on by de kind of noise you
hear.

Come de daybreak you hear de guinea fowls start potracking down at de
edge of de woods lot, and den de roosters all start up 'round de barn
and de ducks finally wake up and jine in. You can smell de sow belly
frying down at the cabins in de "row", to go wid de hoecake and de
buttermilk.

Den purty soon de wind rise a little, and you can hear a old bell
donging way on some plantation a mile or two off, and den more bells
at other places and maybe a horn, and purty soon younder go old Master's
old ram horn wid a long toot and den some short toots, and here come
de overseer down de row of cabins, hollering right and left, and picking
de ham out'n his teeth wid a long shiny goose quill pick.

Bells and horns! Bells for dis and horns for dat! All we knowed was go and
come by de bells and horns!

Old ram horn blow to send us all to de field.

We all line up, about seventy-five field niggers, and go by de tool shed
and git our hoes, or maybe go hitch up de mules to de plows and lay
de plows out on de side so de overseer can see iffen de points is
shart.

Any plow gits broke or de point gits bungled up on de rocks it goes to de blacksmith
nigger, den we all git on down in de field.

Den de anvil start dangling in de blacksmith shop: "Tank! Deling-ding!
Tank! Deling-ding!", and dat ole bull tongue gitting straightened out!

Course
you can't hear de shoemaker awling and pegging, and de card spinners,
and de old mammy sewing by hand, but maybe you can hear de old loom
going "frump, frump", and you know it all right iffen your clothes
do be wearing out, 'cause you gwine git new britches purty soon!

We had about a hundred niggers on dat place, young and old, and about
twenty on de little place down below.

We could make about every kind of thing but coffee and gunpowder dat our
whitefolks and us needed.

When we needs a hat we gits inside cornshucks and weave one out, and makes
horse collars de same way. Jest tie two little soft shucks together
and begin plaiting.

All de cloth 'cepting de Mistress' Sunday dresses come from de sheep to
de carders and de spinners and de weaver, den we dye it wid "butternut"
and hickory bark and indigo and other things and set it wid copperas.
Leather tanned on de place made de shoes, and I never see a store
boughten wagon wheel 'cepting among de stages and de freighters along
de big road.

We made purty, long back-combs out'n cow horn, and knitting needles out'n second
hickory. Split a young hickory and put in a big wedge to prize it
open, then cut it down and let it season, and you got good bent grain
for wagon hames and chair rockers and such.

It was jest like dat until I was grown, and den one day come a neighbor man and say
we in de War.

Little while young Master Frank ride over to Vicksburg and jine de
Sesesh army, but old Master jest go on lak nothing happen, and we
all don't hear nothing more until long come some Sesesh soldiers and
take most old Master's hosses and all his wagons.

I bin working on de tobacco, and when I come back to de barns everything
was gone.

I would go into de woods and git good hickory and burn it till it was all coals
and put it out wid water to make hickory charcoal for curing de tobacco.

I had me some charcoal in de fire trenches under de curing houses,
all full of new tobacco, and overseer come and say bundle all de tobacco
up and he going take it to Shreveport and sell it befo' de soldiers
take it too.

After de hosses all gone and most de cattle and de cotton and de tobacco
gone too, here come de Yankees and spread out all over de whole country.

Dey had a big camp down below our plantation.

One evening a big bunch of Yankee officers come up to de Big House
and old Master set out de brandy in de yard and dey act purty nice.

Next day de
whole bunch leave on out of dat part.

When de hosses and stuff all go old Master sold all de slaves but about four,
but he kept my pappy and mammy and my brother Jimmie and my sister
Betty. She was named after old Mistress. Pappy's name was Charley
and mammy's was Sally. De niggers he kept didn't have much work without
any hosses and wagons, but de blacksmith started in fixing up more
wagons and he kept them hid in de woods till they was all fixed.

Den
along come some more Yankees, and dey tore everything we had up, and
old Master was afeared to shoot at them on account his womenfolks,
so he tried to sneak the fambly out but they kotched him and brung
him back to de plantation.

We niggers didn't know dat he was gone
until we seen de Yankees bringing dem back. De Yankees had done took
charge of everything and was camping in de big yard, and us was all
down at de quarters scared to death, but dey was jest letting us alone.

It
was night when de white folks tried to go away, and still night when
de Yankees brung dem back, and a house nigger come down to de quarters
wid three--four mens in blue clothes and told us to come up to de
Big House.

De Yankees didn't seem to be mad wid old Master, but jest
laughed and talked wid him, but he didn't take de jokes any too good.

Den
dey asked him could he dance and he said no, and dey told him to dance
or make us dance. Dar he stood inside a big ring of dem mens in blue
clothes, wid dey brass buttons shining in de light from de fire dey
had in front of de tents, and he jest stood and said nothing, and
it look lak he wasn't wanting to tell us to dance.

So some of us
young bucks jest step up and say we was good dancers, and we start
shuffling while de rest of de niggers pat.

Some nigger women go back
to de quarters and git de gourd fiddles and de clapping bones made
out'n beef ribs, and bring dem back so we could have some music. We
git all warmed up and dance lak we never did dance befo'! I speck
we invent some new steps dat night!

We act lak we dancing for de
Yankees, but we trying to please Master and old Mistress more than
anything, and purty soon he begin to smile a little and we all feel
a lot better.

Next day de Yankees move on away from our place, and
old Master start gitting ready to move out. We git de wagons we hid,
and de whole passel of us leaves out for Shreveport. Jest left de
old place standing like it was.

In Shreveport old Master git his
cotton and tobacco money what he been afraid to have sent back to
de plantation when he sell his stuff, and we strike out north through
Arkansas.

Dat was de awfullest trip any man ever make! We had to
hide from everybody until we find out if dey Yankees or Sesesh, and
we go along little old back roads and up one mountain and down another,
through de woods all de way.

After a long time we git to the Missouri
line, and kind of cut off through de corner of dat state into Kansas.
I don't know how we ever git across some of dem rivers but we did.
Dey nearly always would be some soldiers around de fords, and dey
would help us find de best crossing. Sometimes we had to unload de
wagons and dry out de stuff what all got wet, and camp a day or two
to fix up again.

Purty soon we git to Fort Scott, and that was whar
de roads forked ever whichaways. There are three classes of these, the Liberal, the Fine, and the Mechanical: the
Liberal, implying scholarship, graduation in which is granted by universities, entitling the
holder to append M.A. to his name; the Mechanical, implying skill; and the Fine, implying the
possession of a soul, discriminated from the mechanical by the word spiritual, as holding of
the entire, undivided man, heart as well as brain.

ARTAXER`XES, the name of several Persian monarchs: A. I., called the "Long-handed," from his
right hand being longer than his left; son of Xerxes I.; concluded a peace with Greece after
a war of 52 years; entertained Themistocles at his court; king from 465 to 424 B.C. A. II.,
MNEMON, vanquished and killed his brother Cyrus at Cunaxa in 401, who had revolted against
him; imposed in 387 on the Spartans the shameful treaty of ANTALCIDAS (q. v.); king from 405
to 359 B.C. A. III., OCHUS, son of the preceding, slew all his kindred on ascending the throne;
in Egypt slew the sacred bull Apis and gave the flesh to his soldiers, for which his eunuch
Bagsas poisoned him; king from 359 to 338 B.C. A. IV., grandson of Sassan, founder of the dynasty
Sassanidæ; restored the old religion of the Magi, amended the laws, and promoted education;
king from A.D. 223 to 232. 

Joe said that he had never dreamed that so much shore and so little
lake could be put together.

Toward morning Harry and Tom became too tired to row, and they lay
down in the bottom of the wet boat, and tried to keep warm by lying
close to each other.