"And then I found that my lifetime was to be for all eternity. In the outer realms time stands
still, as I have told you, and in the plane of existence which was now mine--an extra-material
plane--I had no prospect of aging or of death. My vow, therefore, is for so long as our universe
may endure instead of for merely a lifetime. For this I am duly thankful, for I shall miss
nothing until the end of time.

"I visited planes where other monsters, as clever and as vicious as the metal ones who devastated
Urtraria, were bending every effort of their sciences toward obtaining actual contact with
other planes of the fifth dimension. And I learned that such contact was utterly impossible
of attainment without a gateway in the realm to which they wished to pass--a gateway such as
I had provided for the metal monsters and such as that which your friend Tom Parker has provided
for the Bardeks, or spider men, as you term them.

"In intra-dimensional space I saw the glow of Tom Parker's force area and I made my way to
your world quickly. But Tom could not get my warning: he was too stubbornly and deeply engrossed
in the work he was engaged in. The girl Joan was slightly more susceptible, and I believe she
was beginning to sense my telepathic messages when she sent for you. Still and all, I had begun
to give up hope when you came on the scene. I took you away just as the spider men succeeded
in capturing your friends, and now my hope has revived. I feel sure that my warning shall not
have been in vain."

"But," objected Bert, "you've warned me, not the scientist of my world who is able to prevent
the thing--"

"Yes, you," the Wanderer broke in. "It is better so. This Tom Parker is a zealot even as was
I--a man of science thinking only of his own discoveries. I am not sure he would discontinue
his experiments even were he to receive my warning in all its horrible details. But you, O
Man-Called-Bert, through your love of his sister and by your influence over him, will be able
to do what I can not do myself: bring about the destruction of this apparatus of his; impress
upon him the grave necessity of discontinuing his investigations. You can do it, and you alone,
now that you fully understand."

"Sa-ay! You're putting it up to me entirely?"

"Nearly so, and there is no alternative. I believe I have not misjudged you; you will not fail,
of that I am certain. For the sake of your own kind, for the love of Joan Parker--you will
not fail. And for me--for this small measure of atonement it is permitted that I make or help
to make possible--"

"No, I'll not fail. Take me to them, quick." Bert grinned understandingly as the Wanderer straightened
his broad shoulders and extended his hand.

There was no lack of substantiality in the mighty grip of those closing fingers.

       *       *       *       *       *

Again the sphere's invisible motors increased speed, and again the dizzying kaleidoscope of
color swept past them more furiously.

"We will now overtake them--your friends," said the Wanderer, "in the very act of passing between
planes."

"Overtake them...." Bert mumbled. "I don't get it at all, this time traveling. It's over my
head a mile."

"It isn't time travel really," explained the Wanderer. "We are merely closing up the time-space
interval, moving to the precise spot in the universe where your friend's laboratory existed
at the moment of contact between planes with your world and that of the Bardeks. We shall reach
there a few seconds after the actual capture."

"No chance of missing?" Bert watched the Wanderer as he consulted his mathematical data and
made new adjustments of the controls.

"Not the slightest; it is calculated to a nicety. We could, if we wished, stop just short of
the exact time and would see the re-occurrence of their capture. But only as unseen observers--you
can not enter the plane as a material being during your own actual past, for your entity would
then be duplicated. Of course, I can not enter in any case. But, moving on to the instant after
the event, as we shall do, you may enter either plane as a material being or move between the
two planes at will by means of the gateway provided by Tom Parker's force area. Do you not
now understand the manner in which you will be enabled to carry out the required procedure?"

"H-hmm!" Bert wasn't sure at all. "But this moving through time," he asked helplessly, "and
the change from one plane of oscillation to another--they're all mixed up--what have they to
do with each other?"

"All five dimensions of our universe are definitely interrelated and dependent one upon the
other for the existence of matter in any form whatsoever. You see--but here we are."

       *       *       *       *       *

The motors slowed down and a titanic page seemed to turn over in the cosmos with a vanishing
blaze of magnificence. Directly beneath them glowed the disk of blue-white light that was Tom's
force area. The sphere swooped down within its influence and came to rest.

"Make haste," the Wanderer said. "I shall be here in the gateway though you see me not. Bring
them here, speedily."

On the one side Bert saw familiar objects in Tom's laboratory, on the other side the white
cliff and the pitchy sea of the Bardek realm. And the cage of basket-weave between, with his
friends inside struggling with the spider men. It was the instant after the capture.

"Joan! Tom!" Bert shouted.

A side of the sphere had opened and he plunged through and into the Bardek plane--to the inky
surface of the sea, fully expecting to sink in its forbidding depths. But the stuff was an
elastic solid, springy under his feet and bearing him up as would an air-inflated cushion.
He threw himself upon the cage and tore at it with his fingers.

The whimpering screams of the spider men were in his ears, and he saw from the corner of his
eye that other of the tortoiselike mounds were rising up out of the viscid black depths, dozens
of them, and that hundreds of the Bardeks were closing in on him from all directions. Weapons
were in their hands, and a huge engine of warfare like a caterpillar tractor was skimming over
the sea from the cliff wall with a great grinding and clanking of its mechanisms.

But the cage was pulling apart in his clutches as if made of reeds. With Joan in one encircling
arm he was battling the spider men, driving swift short-arm jabs into their soft bloated bodies
with devastating effect. And Tom, recovering from the first surprise of his capture, was doing
a good job himself, his flailing arms scattering the Bardeks like ninepins. The Wanderer and
his sphere, both doomed to material existence only in infra-dimensional space, had vanished
from sight.

A bedlam rose up from the reinforcing hordes as they came in to enter the force area. But Bert
sensed the guiding touch of the Wanderer's unseen hand, heard his placid voice urging him,
and, in a single wild leap was inside the sphere with the girl.

With Joan safely in the Wanderer's care, he rushed out again for Tom. Then followed a nightmare
of battling those twining tentacles and the puffy crowding bodies of the spider men. Wrestling
tactics and swinging fists were all that the two Earthlings had to rely upon, but, between
them, they managed to fight off a half score of the Bardeks and work their way back into the
glowing force area.

"It's no use," Tom gasped. "We can't get back."

"Sure we can. We've a friend--here--in the force area."

Tom Parker staggered: his strength was giving out. "No, no, Bert," he moaned, "I can't. You
go on. Leave me here."

"Not on your life!" Bert swung him up bodily into the sphere as he contacted with the invisible
metal of its hull. Kicking off the nearest of the spider men, he clambered in after the scientist.

       *       *       *       *       *

The tableau then presented in the sphere's interior was to remain forever imprinted on Bert's
memory, though it was only a momentary flash in his consciousness at the time: the Wanderer,
calm and erect at the control panel, his benign countenance alight with satisfaction; Tom Parker,
pulling himself to his feet, clutching at the big man's free arm, his mouth opened in astonishment;
Joan, seated at the Wanderer's feet with awed and reverent eyes upturned.

There is no passing directly between the planes. One must have the force area as a gateway,
and, besides, a medium such as the cage of the Bardeks, the orange light of the metal monsters,
or the sphere of the Wanderer. Bert knew this instinctively as the sphere darkened and the
flashing light-forms leaped across the blackness.

The motors screamed in rising crescendo as their speed increased. Then, abruptly, the sound
broke off into deathly silence as the limit of audibility was passed. Against the brilliant
background of swift color changes and geometric light-shapes that so quickly merged into the
familiar blur, Bert saw his companions as dim wraithlike forms. He moved toward Joan, groping.

Then came the tremendous thump, the swinging of a colossal page across the void, the warping
of the very universe about them, the physical torture and the swift rush through Stygian inkiness....

"Farewell." A single word, whispered like a benediction in the Wanderer's mellow voice, was
in Bert's consciousness. He knew that their benefactor had slipped away into the mysterious
regions of intra-dimensional space.

       *       *       *       *       *

Raising himself slowly and dazedly from where he had been flung, he saw they were in Tom's
laboratory. Joan lay over there white and still, a pitiful crumpled heap. Panicky, Bert crossed
to her. His trembling fingers found her pulse; a sobbing breath of relief escaped his lips.
She had merely swooned.

Tom Parker, exhausted from his efforts in that other plane and with the very foundations of
his being wrenched by the passage through the fifth dimension, was unable to rise. Only semiconscious,
his eyes were glazed with pain, and incoherent moaning sounds came from his white lips when
he attempted to speak.

Bert's mind was clearing rapidly. That diabolical machine of Tom's was still operating, the
drone of its motors being the only sound in the laboratory as the inventor closed his mouth
grimly and made a desperate effort to raise his head. But Bert had seen shapes materializing
on the lighted disk that was the gateway between planes and he rushed to the controls of the
instrument. That starting lever must be shifted without delay.

"Don't!" Tom Parker had found his voice; his frantic warning was a hoarse whistling gasp. He
had struggled to his knees. "It will kill you, Bert. Those things in the force area--partly
through--the reaction will destroy the machine and all of us if you turn it off. Don't, I say!"

"What then?" Bert fell back appalled. Hazily, the steel prow of a war machine was forming itself
on the metal disk; caterpillar treads moved like ghostly shadows beneath. It was the vanguard
of the Bardek hordes!

"Can't do it that way!" Tom had gotten to his feet and was stumbling toward the force area.
"Only one way--during the change of oscillation periods. Must mingle other atoms with those
before they stabilize in our plane. Must localize annihilating force. Must--"

What was the fool doing? He'd be in the force area in another moment. Bert thrust forward to
intercept him; saw that Joan had regained consciousness and was sitting erect, swaying weakly.
Her eyes widened with horror as they took in the scene and she screamed once despairingly and
was on her feet, tottering.

"Back!" Tom Parker yelled, wheeling. "Save yourselves."

       *       *       *       *       *

Bert lunged toward him but was too late. Tom had already burst into the force area and cast
himself upon the semitransparent tank of the spider men. A blast of searing heat radiated from
the disk and the motors of Tom's machine groaned as they slowed down under a tremendous overload.

Joan cried out in awful despair and moved to follow, but her knees gave way beneath her. Moaning
and shuddering, she slumped into Bert's arms and he drew her back from the awful heat of the
force area.

Then, horrified, they watched as Tom Parker melted into the misty shape of the Bardek war machine.
Swiftly his body merged with the half-substance of the tank and became an integral part of
the mass. For a horrible instant Tom, too, was transparent--a ghost shape writhing in a ghostly
throbbing mechanism of another world. His own atomic structure mingled with that of the alien
thing and yet, for a moment, he retained his Earthly form. His lean face was peaceful in death,
satisfied, like the Wanderer's when they had last seen him.

A terrific thunderclap rent the air and a column of flame roared up from the force area. Tom's
apparatus glowed to instant white heat, then melted down into sizzling liquid metal and glass.
The laboratory was in sudden twilight gloom, save for the tongue of fire that licked up from
the force area to the paneled ceiling. On the metal disk, now glowing redly, was no visible
thing. The gateway was closed forever.

       *       *       *       *       *

What more fearful calamity might have befallen had the machine been switched off instead, Bert
was never to know. Nor did he know how he reached his parked flivver with Joan a limp sobbing
bundle in his arms. He only knew that Tom Parker's sacrifice had saved them, had undoubtedly
prevented a horrible invasion of Earth; and that the efforts of the Wanderer had not been in vain.

The old house was burning furiously when he climbed in under the wheel of his car. He held
Joan very close and watched that blazing funeral pyre in wordless sorrow as the bereaved girl
dropped her head to his shoulder.

A group of men came up the winding road, a straggling group, running--the loungers from the
village. In the forefront was the beardless youth who had directed Bert, and, bringing up the
rear, limping and scurrying, was the old man they had called Gramp. He was puffing prodigiously
when the others gathered around the car, demanding information.

And the old fellow with the thick spectacles talked them all down.

"What'd I tell you?" he screeched. "Didn't I say they was queer doin's up here? Didn't I say
the devil was here with his imps--an' the thunder? You're a passel o' idjits like I said--"

The roar of Bert's starting motor drowned out the rest, but the old fellow was still gesticulating
and dancing about when they clattered off down the winding road to Lenville.

       *       *       *       *       *

An hour later Joan had fallen asleep, exhausted.

Night had fallen and, as mile after mile of smooth concrete unrolled beneath the flivver's
wheels, Bert gave himself over to thoughts he had not dared to entertain in nearly two years.
They'd be happy, he and Joan, and there'd be no further argument. If she still objected to
living on the fruit farm, that could be managed easily. They'd live in Indianapolis and he'd
buy a new car, a good one, to run back and forth. If, when her grief for Tom had lessened,
she wanted to go on with laboratory work and such--well, that was easy, too. Only there would
be no fooling around with this dimensional stuff--she'd had enough of that, he knew.

