What lay beyond the frontier of the known was a speculation inseparable from the spirit of
exploration.  Children, and people who do not travel, are generally content, when their thoughts
stray beyond the paths trodden by their feet, to believe that the greater world is but a continuation
on every side of their own environment; indeed, without the help of sight or suggestion, it
is almost impossible to believe anything else.  If you stand on an eminence in a great plain
and think of the unseen country that lies beyond the horizon, trying to visualise it and imagine
that you see it, the eye of imagination can only see the continuance or projection of what
is seen by the bodily sight.  If you think, you can occupy the invisible space with a landscape
made up from your own memory and knowledge: you may think of mountain chains and rivers, although
there are none visible to your sight, or you may imagine vast seas and islands, oceans and
continents.  This, however, is thought, not pure imagination; and even so, with every advantage
of thought and knowledge, you will not be able to imagine beyond your horizon a space of sea
so wide that the farther shore is invisible, and yet imagine the farther shore also.  You will
see America across the Atlantic and Japan across the Pacific; but you cannot see, in one single
effort of the imagination, an Atlantic of empty blue water stretching to an empty horizon,
another beyond that equally vast and empty, another beyond that, and so on until you have spanned
the thousand horizons that lie between England and America.  The mind, that is to say, works
in steps and spans corresponding to the spans of physical sight; it cannot clear itself enough
from the body, or rise high enough beyond experience, to comprehend spaces so much vaster than
anything ever seen by the eye of man.  So also with the stretching of the horizon which bounded
human knowledge of the earth.  It moved step by step; if one of Prince Henry's captains, creeping
down the west coast of Africa, discovered a cape a hundred miles south of the known world,
the most he could probably do was to imagine that there might lie, still another hundred miles
farther south, another cape; to sail for it in faith and hope, to find it, and to imagine another
possibility yet another hundred miles away.  So far as experience went back, faith could look
forward.  It is thus with the common run of mankind; yesterday's march is the measure of to-morrow's;
as much as they have done once, they may do again; they fear it will be not much more; they
hope it may be not much less.

The history of the exploration of the world up to the day when Columbus set sail from Palos
is just such a history of steps.  The Phoenicians coasting from harbour to harbour through
the Mediterranean; the Romans marching from camp to camp, from country to country; the Jutes
venturing in their frail craft into the stormy northern seas, making voyages a little longer
and more daring every time, until they reached England; the captains of Prince Henry of Portugal
feeling their way from voyage to voyage down the coast of Africa--there are no bold flights
into the incredible here, but patient and business-like progress from one stepping-stone to
another.  Dangers and hardships there were, and brave followings of the faint will-o'-the-wisp
of faith in what lay beyond; but there were no great launchings into space.  They but followed
a line that was the continuance or projection of the line they had hitherto followed; what
they did was brave and glorious, but it was reasonable.  What Columbus did, on the contrary,
was, as we shall see later, against all reason and knowledge.  It was a leap in the dark towards
some star invisible to all but him; for he who sets forth across the desert sand or sea must
have a brighter sun to guide him than that which sets and rises on the day of the small man.

Our familiarity with maps and atlases makes it difficult for us to think of the world in other
terms than those of map and diagram; knowledge and science have focussed things for us, and
our imagination has in consequence shrunk.  It is almost impossible, when thinking of the earth
as a whole, to think about it except as a picture drawn, or as a small globe with maps traced
upon it. I asked myself. Suddenly I had an idea about his destination.

I was right. In the foremost carriage I found him. I tried to persuade
him to come out, but he clung to the rack. So I left him. I have not
seen him since.

I hope he feels safe in the Isle of Wight.  Columbus
had seen maps and charts--among them the famous 'portolani' of Benincasa at Genoa; but I think
it unlikely that he was so familiar with them as to have adopted their terms in his thoughts
about the earth.  He had seen the Mediterranean and sailed upon it before he had seen a chart
of it; he knew a good deal of the world itself before he had seen a map of it.  He had more
knowledge of the actual earth and sea than he had of pictures or drawings of them; and therefore,
if we are to keep in sympathetic touch with him, we must not think too closely of maps, but
of land and sea themselves.

The world that Columbus had heard about as being within the knowledge of men extended on the
north to Iceland and Scandinavia, on the south to a cape one hundred miles south of the Equator,
and to the east as far as China and Japan.  North and South were not important to the spirit
of that time; it was East and West that men thought of when they thought of the expansion and
the discovery of the world.  And although they admitted that the earth was a sphere, I think
it likely that they imagined (although the imagination was contrary to their knowledge) that
the line of West and East was far longer, and full of vaster possibilities, than that of North
and South.  North was familiar ground to them--one voyage to England, another to Iceland, another
to Scandinavia; there was nothing impossible about that.  Southward was another matter; but
even here there was no ambition to discover the limit of the world.  It is an error continually
made by the biographers of Columbus that the purpose of Prince Henry's explorations down the
coast of Africa was to find a sea road to the West Indies by way of the East.  It was nothing
of the kind. There was no idea in the minds of the Portuguese of the land which Columbus discovered,
and which we now know as the West Indies.  Mr. Vignaud contends that the confusion arose from
the very loose way in which the term India was applied in the Middle Ages.  Several Indias
were recognised.  There was an India beyond the Ganges; a Middle India between the Ganges and
the Indus; and a Lesser India, in which were included Arabia, Abyssinia, and the countries
about the Red Sea.  These divisions were, however, quite vague, and varied in different periods.
In the time of Columbus the word India meant the kingdom of Prester John, that fabulous monarch
who had been the subject of persistent legends since the twelfth century; and it was this India
to which the Portuguese sought a sea road.  They had no idea of a barrier cape far to the south,
the doubling of which would open a road for them to the west; nor were they, as Mr. Vignaud
believes, trying to open a route for the spice trade with the Orient.  They had no great spice
trade, and did not seek more; what they did seek was an extension of their ordinary trade with
Guinea and the African coast.  To the maritime world of the fifteenth century, then, the South
as a geographical region and as a possible point of discovery had no attractions.

To the west stretched what was known as the Sea of Darkness, about which even the cool knowledge
of the geographers and astronomers could not think steadily.  Nothing was known about it, it
did not lead anywhere, there were no people there, there was no trade in that direction.  The
tides of history and of life avoided it; only now and then some terrified mariner, blown far
out of his course, came back with tales of sea monsters and enchanted disappearing islands,
and shores that receded, and coasts upon which no one could make a landfall.  The farthest
land known to the west was the Azores; beyond that stretched a vague and impossible ocean of
terror and darkness, of which the Arabian writer Xerif al Edrisi, whose countrymen were the
sea-kings of the Middle Ages, wrote as follows:

     "The ocean encircles the ultimate bounds of the inhabited earth, and
     all beyond it is unknown.

