Ephraim's early education was gotten at the school of the town in which he lived. He completed
his school studies at an institution of somewhat higher pretentions, situated in a county near
by. No anecdotes are preserved of his childhood. As soon as he saw me, his expression, which was already
depressed, changed to actual anger. If I were a tame animal who had suddenly attacked him, he could not
have displayed more wrath.

I had been extremely polite in all of our regular meetings since
his arrival in London, as was necessary. Now, however, though I wanted
desperately news of Di, I didn't dare attempt to pry it from him, after
that glare. It was then to the medical profession
what Leyden had been in the days of Sir Thomas Browne, what Paris became when Velpeau and Louis
taught there. He entered the private class of John Bell, whose forceful teachings and native
eloquence made a lasting impression on the mind of his youthful hearer. It has been said that
McDowell conceived the thought of ovariotomy from some suggestions thrown out by this great
man. The only distinction he is known to have won while in Edinburgh was that of having been
chosen by his classmates to carry the colors of the college in a foot-race against a professional.
In this it appears he was an easy first. He came away without a diploma. But what was of far
greater value than a degree, he brought back the anatomical and surgical knowledge which was
to place him in the front of his profession.

He returned to Kentucky in 1795, and settled among the people who had known him from boyhood.
His success was immediate, and yet Dr. Samuel Brown, who knew him in Virginia, and was his
classmate in Scotland, had said, when asked of him: "Pish! he left home a gosling and came
back a goose." In a little while he commanded all the surgical operations of importance for
hundreds of miles around him, and this continued till, some years later, Dudley returned from
Europe to share with him the empire in surgery.

In 1802, fully established in his profession, and with an income which rendered him independent,
he married Sarah, daughter of Governor Isaac Shelby.

In 1809 he did his first ovariotomy. He believed the operation to be without precedent in the
annals of surgery, yet he kept no note of it or of his subsequent work. He prepared no account
of it until 1817. This appeared in the Eclectic Repertory. It was so meagre and so startling
that surgeons hesitated to credit its truth. He had not mastered his mother tongue. The paper
was thought to bear internal evidence of its author's having "relied upon his ledger for his
dates and upon his memory for the facts." The critics from far and near fell upon him. The
profession at home cast doubt upon the narrative. The profession abroad ridiculed it. For all
that, McDowell kept his temper and his course, and when he finally laid down his knife he had
a score of thirteen operations done for diseased ovaria, with eight recoveries, four deaths,
and one failure to complete the operation because of adhesions.

It would be neither fitting nor becoming on this occasion, and in this presence, to speak in
detail of the technic observed by McDowell in his work. That has long since passed into history.
I may, however, be permitted the remark that the procedure, in many of its features, is necessarily
that of to-day. The incision was longer than that now usually made, and the ends of the pedicle
ligature were left hanging from the lower angle of the wound. But the pedicle itself was dropped
back into the abdomen. The patient was turned on her side to allow the blood and other fluids
to drain away. The wound was closed with interrupted sutures. This marvel of work was done
without the help of anesthetics or trained assistants, or the many improved instruments of
to-day, which have done so much to simplify and make the operation easy. McDowell had never
heard of antisepsis, nor dreamed of germicides or germs; but water, distilled from nature's
unpolluted cisterns by the sun, and dropped from heaven's condensers in the clean blue sky,
with air winnowed through the leaves of the primeval forest which deepened into a wilderness
about him on every hand, gave him and his patients aseptic facility and environment which the
most favored living laparotomist well might envy. These served him well, and six out of seven
of his first cases recovered. He removed the first tumor in twenty-five minutes, a time not
since much shortened by the average operator.

It was not alone, however, in this hitherto unexplored field of surgery that McDowell showed
himself a master. His skill was exhibited equally in other capital operations. He acquired
at an early day distinction as a lithotomist, which brought to him patients from other States.
He operated by the lateral method, and for many years used the gorget in opening the bladder.
At a later period he employed the scalpel throughout. He performed lithotomy thirty-two times
without a death. Among those who came to him to be cut for stone was a pale, slender boy, who
had traveled all the way from North Carolina. This youth proved to be McDowell's most noted
patient. He was James K. Polk, afterward President of the United States. 

Father, is it something? Did something go? A chance was found to speak softly, but I got astonished when
answer was given only a frown that too looked strangely while expressing,
“Anyways better it will not be asked by you! You must not behave
innocence since it not part of you character” Yet
he had a proper appreciation of what was due his guild from those whose means allowed them
to make remuneration for professional services. He charged $500 for an ovariotomy that he went
to Nashville, Tenn., to do. The husband of the patient gave him a check, as he supposed, for
that sum. On presenting it, the doctor discovered that it was drawn for $1,500 instead of $500,
whereupon he returned the check, thinking a mistake had been made. The grateful gentleman replied
that it was correct, and added that the services much outweighed the sum paid. When the fact
is borne in mind that the purchasable value of money was much greater in the first than in
this the last decade of the century, it will be seen that the "father of ovariotomy," at least,
set his successors in the field a good example. This is made conspicuous by the fact that Sir
Spencer Wells has seldom charged a larger sum, and has declared £100 to be a sufficient fee
for the operation.

In person Dr. McDowell was commanding. He was tall, broad-shouldered, stout-limbed. His head
was large, his nose prominent and full of character, his chin broad, his lips full and expressive
of determination, his complexion florid, his eyes dark-black. His voice was clear and manly;
he often exercised it in recitations from Scotch dialogues, when he would roll the Scotch idiom
upon his tongue with the readiness of a native. He was fond of music, especially comic pieces,
which he sang with fine effect, accompanying his voice sometimes with the violin.

He was a man of the times, taking an active interest in the affairs of the community in which
he lived. He had many books for that day. Cullen and Sydenham were his chief authorities in
medicine; Burns and Scott in literature. He was fond of reading, yet he was inclined to action
rather than study.

He placed great reliance on surgery and its possibilities; he placed little trust in drugs.
He counselled against their too liberal use. In truth, he did not like the practice of medicine,
and turned over most of his non-surgical cases to his associate in business. In manner he was
courteous, frank, considerate, and natural. He was a simple, ingenuous man. His great deeds
had given him no arrogance. His was a clean, strong, vigorous life. His spirit remained sweet
and true and modest to the last. He lived a God-fearing man, and died on June 25, 1830, in
the communion of the Episcopal Church.

1813. While McDowell was so busily engaged in his special line of surgery, his colaborers elsewhere
in the State were not idle. Four years after his first ovariotomy, the first complete extirpation
of the clavicle ever done was accomplished by Dr. Charles McCreary, living in Hartford, Ohio
County, Ky., two hundred miles, as the crow would fly, farther into the wilderness. The patient
was a lad named Irvin. The disease for which the operation was done was said to be scrofulous.
Recovery was slow but complete. The use of the arm remained unimpaired, and the patient lived,
in good health, to be forty-nine years old.

In 1829, sixteen years after the back-woods surgeon had achieved his success, Professor Mott
repeated the operation, also on a youth, with a like fortunate result, and, believing he was
first in the field, claimed the honor of the procedure for the United States, for New York,
and for himself. He turned around and opened Diana's door without even knocking. He would have
slammed it in my face if Kitty Main hadn't been about to come out. She obviously had her hand already on
the know when he pulled it away from her.

"Oh, Major!" she cried.

Mott's operation required nearly four hours for its execution, and the tying of forty vessels;
but after all it proved to be not a complete extirpation; for the autopsy, made many years
later, showed three quarters of an inch of the bone at the acromial end still in its place.
Yet the case passed quickly into the annals of surgery and added much to the already great
renown of the operator. To this day it is referred to by surgical writers as "Mott's celebrated
case," and the description of his procedure is often given in his own words.

McCreary removed the entire collar bone, and that while a young practitioner, living in a village
composed of a few scattering houses, situated in a new and sparsely settled country, where
opportunities for cultivating surgical science were necessarily rare, and the means for acquiring
anatomical knowledge necessarily small.

The only published report of McCreary's case is from the pen of Dr. Johnson, in the New Orleans
Medical and Surgical Journal for January, 1850. The account, though all too brief, clearly
establishes the date of the operation, its successful issue, and the removal of the entire bone.

It is greatly to be regretted that more is not known of McCreary's personal and professional
character. He is said, by one who met him often, to have been a serious, thoughtful man, given
to study, devoted to his calling, and fatally fond of drink, to which he fell a victim when
but thirty-seven years of age.

