 (7) Hence, those writers who assert that Judah's long absence from his
father's house took place before Joseph was sold, only seek to delude
themselves and to call in question the Scriptural authority which
they are anxious to protect.

                        

                        
Endnote 14. (1) "Dinah was scarcely seven years old when she was violated
by Schechem." (2) The opinion held by some that Jacob wandered about eight
or ten years between Mesopotamia and Bethel, savours of the ridiculous;
if respect for Aben Ezra, allows me to say so.

              (3) For it is clear that Jacob had two reasons
                for haste: first, the desire to see his
                       old parents; secondly, and chiefly to perform, the vow made when
he fled from his brother (Gen. xxviii:10 and xxxi:13, and xxxv:1).
(4) We read (Gen. xxxi:3), that God had commanded him to fulfill his
vow, and promised him help for returning to his country.

(5) If these considerations seem conjectures rather than reasons,
I will waive the point and admit that Jacob, more unfortunate than
Ulysses, spent eight or ten years or even longer, in this short
journey. (6) At any rate it cannot be denied that Benjamin was born in
the last year of this wandering, that is by the reckoning of the objectors,
when Joseph was sixteen or seventeen years old, for Jacob left Laban
seven years after Joseph's birth. (7) Now from the seventeenth year
of Joseph's age till the patriarch went into Egypt, not more than
twenty-two years elapsed, as we have shown in this chapter.

(8) Consequently Benjamin, at the time of the journey to Egypt, was
twenty-three or twenty- four at the most. (9) He would therefore have
been a grandfather in the flower of his age (Gen. xlvi:21, cf.

Numb. xxvi:38, 40, and 1 Chron. viii;1), for it is certain that Bela, Benjamin's
eldest son, had at that time, two sons, Addai and Naa-man. (10) This
is just as absurd as the statement that Dinah was violated at the age
of seven, not to mention other impossibilities which would result from
the truth of the narrative.

(11) Thus we see that unskillful endeavours to solve difficulties,
only raise fresh ones, and make confusion worse confounded.

Endnote 15. (1) "Othniel, son of Kenag, was judge for forty years."
(2) Rabbi Levi Ben Gerson and others believe that these forty years which
the Bible says were passed in freedom, should be counted from the
death of Joshua, and consequently include the eight years during
which the people were subject to Kushan Rishathaim, while the following
eighteen years must be added on to the eighty years of Ehud's and
Shamgar's judgeships.

(3) In this case it would be necessary to reckon the other years of
subjection among those said by the Bible to have been passed in freedom.
(4) But the Bible expressly notes the number of years of subjection, and
the number of years of freedom, and further declares (Judges ii:18)
that the Hebrew state was prosperous during the whole time of the
judges.

(5) Therefore it is evident that Levi Ben Gerson (certainly a very learned
man), and those who follow him, correct rather than interpret the
Scriptures.

(6) The same fault is committed by those who assert, that Scripture,
by this general calculation of years, only intended to mark the period
of the regular administration of the Hebrew state, leaving out the
years of anarchy and subjection as periods of misfortune and interregnum.

(7) Scripture certainly passes over in silence periods of anarchy, but does not, as they dream, refuse
to reckon them or wipe them out of the country's annals.

(8) It is clear that Ezra, in 1 Kings vi., wished to reckon absolutely all the years since the
flight from Egypt.

(9) This is so plain, that no one versed in the Scriptures can doubt it.
(10) For, without going back to the precise words of the text, we may see
that the genealogy of David given at the end of the book of Ruth,
and I Chron. ii., scarcely accounts for so great a number of years.

(11) For Nahshon, who was prince of the tribe of Judah (Numb. vii;11),
two years after the Exodus, died in the desert, and his son Salmon
passed the Jordan with Joshua.

(12) Now this Salmon, according to the genealogy, was David's great-grandfather.
(13) Deducting, then, from the total of 480 years, four years for
Solomon's reign, seventy for David's life, and forty for the time
passed in the desert, we find that David was born 366 years after
the passage of the Jordan. Go home. Leave these people alone. Don't try to make them over."

The last lines rang in sympathy with Lord's own feelings, and he knew that was absurd. Changes
would have to be made when the trade city was built. That was Lord's business. Erskyll thought he was
anticipating resistance on the part of the Masters, and for once
he approved the use of force.

Ordinarily, force was a Bad Thing, but this was a Good Cause, which
justified any means.

They entertained the committee from the Convocation for dinner, that evening.
They came aboard stiffly hostile--most understandably so, under the
circumstances--and Prince Trevannion exerted all his copious charm
to thaw them out, beginning with the pre-dinner cocktails and continuing
through the meal.

By the time they retired for coffee and
brandy to the parlor where the conference was to be held, the Lords-ex-Masters
were almost friendly.

"We've enacted the Emancipation Act," Olvir Nikkolon, who was ex officio
chairman of the committee, reported.

"Every slave on the planet must be free before the opening of the
next Midyear Feasts."

"And when will that be?"

Aditya, he knew, had a three hundred and fifty-eight day year; even
if the Midyear Feasts were just past, they were giving themselves
very little time.

In about a hundred and fifty days, Nikkolon said.

"Good heavens!"

Erskyll began,
indignantly.

       

"I should say so, myself," he put in, cutting off anything else the
new Proconsul might have said.

"You gentlemen are allowing yourselves dangerously little time. A
hundred and fifty days will pass quite rapidly, and you have twenty
million slaves to deal with.

If you start at this moment and work continuously, you'll
have a little under a second apiece for each slave."

The Lords-Master looked dismayed. So, he was happy to observe, did
Count Erskyll.

"I assume you have some system of slave registration?"
he continued.

That was safe. They had a bureaucracy, and bureaucracies
tend to have registrations of practically everything. The indecent dress of these people, their indolent villages, their congenital
irresponsibility--all that disgusts me, but it has not affected my analysis. There's something
else here--something far more terrible and more dangerous for us. I can't put it in words.
It's horrible and it's deadly; it's the reason why our men have deserted. They've had attractive
women on other worlds--in the trade cities, anything money could buy--but they never jumped
ship before."

"A certain percentage always will, Ann." Lord hoped he sounded reassuring, but he felt anything
but reassured himself. Not because of what she said. These naive, altogether delightful people
were harmless. But could the charming simplicity of their lives survive the impact of civilization?
It was this world that was in danger, not by any stretch of the imagination the Federation.

       *       *       *       *       *

As the thought occurred to him, he shrank from it with a kind of inner terror. It was heresy.
The Federation represented the closest approximation of perfection mortal man would ever know:
a brotherhood of countless species, a union of a thousand planets, created by the ingenuity
and the energy of man. These are wonderful stimulants to the delicate child and should precede the
salt glow twice a week.

Every afternoon a hot-and-cold foot bath may be given to create a
better circulation.

The feet are put in hot water from three to five minutes (as hot
as can be borne), and then they are quickly plunged into the coldest
water obtainable for three seconds, then back into the hot water,
and vice versa, until three changes have been made, always finishing
the treatment with the cold dip.

On the three remaining days of the week at half past three, the child will simply relax in the hammock
or on the porch couch while the mother aids in the relaxation by
a pleasant story.

We would suggest that on Monday the salt glow be administered; Tuesday a
rest is taken; Wednesday the soap shampoo is to be administered; Thursday
another rest; Friday a salt glow; Saturday another rest, and Sunday the
shampoo, etc.

Before going to bed at night, with the mother's hands well oiled with
either olive or sweet oil, the circulation is again stimulated by
the heavy friction rub.

Constipation is taken care of along the same lines as mentioned elsewhere
in this book.

It is surprising to see how often these delicate children are infested
by worms, and while a great deal of dependence cannot be put in that
single symptom "grinding the teeth at night," or "pallor around the
mouth," yet we do believe that many a delicate child continues to
suffer from worms many years.

It is a very simple procedure to obtain a specimen of the stools. A cathartic
should be given and after usual free-bowel movement, the second time
the child desires to go to stool this should be saved and taken to
the laboratory for a careful search for worm eggs which are usually
in evidence if worms infest the child.

The treatment for worms is described elsewhere in this work.

We have seen scores of young people between the ages of eight and eleven
who, before treatment, were pale, listless, under weight, irritable
and cross, after three months of such treatment as has been outlined
gain six to ten pounds and look as ruddy as their healthiest neighborhood
friends.

It is perfectly marvelous to notice how a child will put on from six to eight pounds in a short
period, at the same time overcoming his irritableness and fretfulness.
I am more and more inclined to believe that most bad children are sick
children--are undernourished children--and it behooves us American mothers
and fathers to give proper attention to this undernourished child,
call a halt, and devote three months to giving him the help that he
needs.

       He did not ask to come into this world; and it is "up to us" to give
this child what he deserves--for every child in this world has a
right to be well born, to be well fed, and to be well reared.

CHAPTER XL

TEACHING TRUTH

We confidently believe that most of the sex immorality seen in young people is more or less the
result of ignorance and curiosity; therefore we most earnestly desire in this chapter to portray so
interestingly the beautiful story of life as seen in the vegetable and animal world,
that our mother-readers will be seized with the great desire wisely to
convey to the young child's mind this sublime and beautiful story. The
questions most naturally arising in the mind of the reader at this
time are: When shall we begin to tell this story?

How shall we tell it? Where shall we begin? Where shall we stop? Realizing full well that the subject
is usually handled prematurely and with unpreparedness, we will attempt
in this chapter to discuss it with courage and candor, believing
that there is a right way, a right time, and a right place to impart this
information.

A LESSON FROM NATURE

When the little folks are about three or four years of age, when confidence
and trust are at their height, they often come to us begging for a
"story;" and this is the golden opportunity for the parent or caretaker
to tell them the story of Mr. and Mrs. Corn, and all their little
babies; or Mr. and Mrs. Morning Glory and their little folks.

There are a score of other equally interesting and instructive botanical
stories which are just as beautiful in their sublimity, and fairy-like
in their personality.

The little children's eyes grow big with wonder as you tell the story of a whole township of families by the
name of Corn (See Fig. 17), who have their residences out in the wide
country fields.

We will first introduce the child to Mr. Corn, the tassel, waving proudly and
majestically in the breezes, and seeming to say: "I am master of
all I survey."

The little fellow is filled with wonderment as he learns how the clouds give up their drops of water
to quench his thirst and how the sun smiles upon him to yellow his beard;
and how the wonderful all-important pollen is developed and ripened.

Often the child eagerly asks, "And where, mamma, is Mrs. Corn?" and
to that interested upturned face we relate the pleasing story of
the beautiful silken tresses of Mother Corn.

Early in her life she is a beautiful shade of green, and as she thus
gracefully hangs out from the ear of corn, day by day the smiles of
sunshine turn this mother corn to brown, and then to a still darker
shade.

"And where, mamma, are the babies?" the child next inquires; and, as we take the
ear of corn, removing the outer clothing--the husks--we find the underclothing,
a much lighter shade of green, and here now we are in close contact with
the babies themselves--the kernels--and to each little kernel or
baby corn we find mamma closely clinging.

Here is a beautiful opportunity to teach mother-love and mother watchfulness, as also the opportunity to
draw lessons from the baby kernels sitting there in even rows, with their faces clean, silently
contented--just doing their duty. The stories that may be told are limitless,
and possibly as interesting as are the myths and fairy-tales, yet all
the while as true as truth itself, with no fakery, no legends--just simple
truth.

THE ALL IMPORTANT POLLEN

Now on a second trip into the cornfield, another story may be told of the
important work of the pollen. This "father part" of the plant falls
upon the silken tresses of the "mother part," by which the pollen
is carried down to the sleeping corn-baby seeds--the kernels.

And when the "corn dust" does reach the sleeping seeds a great change begins to take place. This change
is known to the adult as "impregnation;" to the little child it may be presented
as "an awakening" of the sleeping seeds, so that they begin to grow, to develop,
to expand and push out, until we have the full-grown seeds seen in
the delicious and juicy roasting ear.

Sometimes, in the case of the larger plants and trees, Father Tree may
be miles and miles away from Mother Tree and so this all important
pollen must be carried by the wind or by the bees, and as it blows
against the mother part of the plant-flower she catches it and pushes
it downward to the seed babies.

The wind scatters the pollen of the oak tree, the hazlenut, the walnut, the birch,
the willow and many others; for, without the good kind wind or the
bees, the pollen would never find its way to many a mother flower,
and the "fertilization" of the seed could not take place.

THE MORNING GLORY FAMILY

Perhaps
the story of life can be told as beautifully from the morning-glory as
from any other flower. Here the beautiful flower cup is the home of Father
and Mother Morning-Glory and all their little babies. (See Fig. 18).

As
we carefully take away their little home, the flower cup, we have left a little
green cup, and coming up from the center you will see five little
stems, every one of them wearing a hat of powder or pollen and this--if
you please--is Papa Morning-Glory.

Look closely and you will see coming up from the center of these five stems (stamens)
one central stalk without a hat, Mother Morning-Glory, known in botany
as the "pistil"; and as you follow down this pistil you will find an enlarged
part at the base, which is known as the cradle-nest--the home of
the seed babies.

Little was known about this wonderful fertilization of the seeds by
the pollen two hundred years ago, and a whole century passed before
the secret of the blossom and the bees was discovered; and even then
it was not fully realized how great was the work of the bees in cross-fertilization.

       

Nor was it understood that the beautiful blossom of the flower, with
its sweet nectar, was an exceedingly important factor in attracting
the bees. Another century passed before Darwin gave to the world the
story of the great work performed by the bees in cross-fertilization--in
carrying the pollen from flower to flower, for it is now a well-known
fact that all of the blossoms visited by the bees produce better fruit
and better flowers.

In the flower where the father and mother part matures at the same time, self-fertilization is the rule.
Cross-fertilization occurs in instances where either the father part or mother part ripen at different
times, in these cases the pollen is carried from plant to plant by the wind or by the nectar-seeking
bees. These busy bees, with their fluffy little feet and fuzzy coats, become completely covered with this
all-important flower dust, and in seeking nectar from other flowers
they leave the "awakening dust" behind, and thus cross-fertilization takes
place; new types of babies are produced, new generations of fruits and
flowers.

HOW MOTHER NATURE WORKS

Dr. Chadwick, in her Blossom Babies, gives us a beautiful recital concerning
the fertilization of plants, which provides an endless number of interesting
stories.

The water plants are very interesting in that the pollen is just light
enough to float on the exact level of the mother part of the flower, otherwise
fertilization could never take place, and there would be no more lovely
lilies. Long throated blossoms are fertilized by their attraction
for certain moths or humming birds who have long tongues. Mother Nature
is exceedingly careful to reproduce her children, and in every conceivable
way she sees to it that her plant-seeds are fertilized and distributed.
We are all familiar with the dandelion and the thistle and a host of
others which fly through the air with actual plumes, some seeds fly
with wings, such as the maple; other seeds travel by clinging or
sticking, such as the cockle burr; still others float and shoot; while
we all know about a lot of seeds that are good to eat, such as the
nuts and fruits, as well as many of the grains, such as corn, etc.

An
incubator about hatching time is a wonderful object lesson in teaching
the story of life.

Take the children to visit one and let them actually see the live
baby chicks coming forth from the seed-shells.

Other wonderful lessons may be drawn from the mother horse or the mother cow; and it is impossible to
portray the close companionship, the sublime trust and confidence, which exists between the mother
and the child who have been bound together by these ties and sentiments
of truthfulness, trustfulness, and frankness.

THE SALMON FAMILY

The little fellow is daily learning that everything that grows comes from
a seed, even the salmon which was eaten at lunch yesterday was the
text for an impressive story about Papa and Mamma Salmon.

In the beautiful Columbia river Mother Salmon is swimming about quietly seeking a shallow place in the stream
where she may deposit her cluster of baby seeds, which looks very much like
a mass of tapioca pudding as they gently sink to the bed of a shallow
spot in the river. There they lay "sound asleep" until Father Salmon, swimming
by, is attracted to the spot and, hesitating, talks something like this
to himself: "Why the idea, here are some helpless fish-baby seeds,
they can't grow and develop without me, here they are sound asleep;"
and, nestling over them, he contributes the self-same and all important
"something"--comparable to the pollen of the plants--which wakes them
up.

In the case of the fish the "awakening" substance is not in the form
of a powder as in the plant world; but is in the form of a semi-liquid
mass, much resembling the white of an egg. The little seeds soon begin
to tremble--begin to wake up--and then begin to swell and grow and
develop.

In a few days what do you suppose happens to these little bulging baby seeds? The very same thing that happened
to the chick seed--they burst and out come hundreds of cute little fish minnows. In just
a few hours they are all swimming about in a most wonderful fish-like manner.

EARLY QUESTIONS

Some day you will be surprised by your little child suddenly asking
you some such question as this: "Mother, where did I come from?" while
in the same frank manner you reply: "Why from your mamma, of course;
where do you think you could have come from?

       

Everything that grows comes from its mamma--oranges, apples, radishes,
cabbages, cats, dogs, and chickies--everything that grows has to
have a mamma and papa," and they are often satisfied with this answer
for a long time.

No child should go to kindergarten without knowing that he came from
his mother, and this knowledge should come to him from his own mother's
lips. These are different days than those in which our grandmothers
lived.

The spirit of investigation and of inquiry is in the air. The moving-picture
show makes it necessary for children of nine or ten to understand these
things--to have a knowledge of certain of the conventionalities
of life. Twenty years ago this may not have been so necessary--the
youth of that day might have waited several years longer for certain
phases of his sex instruction.

It is highly important that this knowledge be obtained from a wise
and pure and sympathetic mind--from the child's own parents.

One mother put her little girl's questions off week after week, saying:
"I will tell you when you get older, dear--no, not now, dear; run
away, you are not old enough to know such things, you must forget
about them."

Thus the unprepared mother sought to gain time in which to consult
the doctor or the library. Finally the day came when the mother felt
that she was sufficiently wise to answer the query, "Where did I
come from," and so with her heart in her throat she approached her
daughter, saying: "Come, Mary, mother is going to tell you all about
it.

I am now ready to answer your question." Imagine her surprise and astonishment
when Mary said: "Oh, you needn't mind, mother, Kate told me all about
it last week."

Now the question in my mind is: how did Kate tell her? How much unnecessary
information did this older and experienced Kate put into the pure mind of this
innocent little girl?

ONE MOTHER'S AWAKENING

One mother in a western state--a county superintendent of schools--told
us the following interesting story of her own experience, which we
think may be of help to some of our mother readers.

One morning her seven-year old son rushed into the house exclaiming:
"Oh, mother, there is a new calf out in the barn, and I know where it
came from; I saw a wagon load of calves come by here yesterday, and
one of them must have dropped off, for it is right out there in the
barn with old Bess this minute."

The mother was very busy with her papers and her reports, and she let
the incident pass with a smile, thinking it was a very pretty little
story. A week later the six-year old brother came in saying: "Mother,
I think there must have been another wagon load of calves passed
by, and one must have been lost off, for old Nell is cleaning up
a little calf out in the barn for all she is worth," while the older
brother piped up: "Sure, it was another load of calves; that is just
exactly the way the other calf got here;" and the two little fellows
went off to school.

About a month later that county superintendent suddenly became a much
wiser mother than she was before, although her heart was made to ache. Both
boys came home from school one day and the older one met her with
something like this: "I am mad! I've been lied to; all the fellows
at school say I have, and they are making sport of me, too," and with
a glare in his reddened eye he continued, "You know that new calf did
not come off that wagon; you know that calf came from old Bess herself;
all the fellows say so at school, and they are making all kinds of
fun of me, and I don't want to go back.

I'd like to run away from home."

The mother quietly drew the boy to her side and reminded him that she
had simply listened; that she had not opened her mouth; that he came
into the room and told about the incident himself, but this did not
satisfy him.

He turned to her wounded and crushed, saying: "Well, you let a fellow believe
it, and that's just as bad;" and this educated mother--this trusted custodian
of a county full of school children--beseeched me to warn mothers
everywhere to teach their children the truth, and to never let a
child go to school with a sex misunderstanding.

She told me that it took her six months to get that boy's confidence
back again.

DON'T GET SHOCKED

I believe that many mothers make the sad mistake of showing the child that they
are shocked by trivial sayings and trifling experiences of their
little people.

If we could only get it into our heads for once and for all that our children are born into this world
veritable little thieves and falsifiers, as well as adventurers and explorers, we would then cease being
so shocked and outraged by their frank statements of what they have heard or have done. Let the mother
listen to all these things with calmness, while she seeks to direct the child's mind in pure
and elevated channels--to help him upward by imparting "precept upon precept; here a little and
there a little."

Children will come in with stories that at first thought do greatly shock
the parent; but under no circumstances should the boy or girl discover
that the parent is shocked, for if he does he will not likely come again
with another such "shocking" difficulty.

One mother told me that her seven-year-old boy, beginning third grade,
came into her bedroom one morning saying: "Mother, I am just busting
to say something," and this mother very wisely said, "Well, say it;
certainly I don't want you to burst," and she told me that this boy
whispered to her three of the filthiest words that he could possibly
have heard on the streets.

In relating this experience to me she said: "Do you know, doctor,
that I really did not know what to think at first, but I remembered
that you had taught me never to be shocked, and so I looked up and
asked: "Do you feel better?" whereupon he breathed a big sigh and
exclaimed: "What a relief!

       

I have just been busting to say that to somebody." Mother, to whom
would you rather he would say these things? to you, or to some little
girl out on the street, or to some older boy? Think what trouble and
possible mischief were avoided by whispering into the sympathetic
ear of mother.

This wise mother turned to that little boy and said: "Son, that ear is always waiting for just such things and whenever
you feel like saying something--like getting it off your mind--you just come to me;" and he came repeatedly.
One time he came in saying: "I don't know whether you want me to
play with Harold or not; he does some of those things you told me
about the other day."

And the mother thoughtfully and wisely looked up and said: "Did he do it in front of his mother? Why of course
he didn't. Did he ask you to go into the bedroom or bathroom and
lock the door?" and the little fellow quickly answered: "Why sure
he did; how did you guess it?" and added "now I suppose you are not
going to let me play with him any more," and this wise mother, knowing
that if she denied him this privilege that it would quite likely be
frequently sought, said: "Why, certainly play with Harold in the open,
but whenever he suggests secrecy--" she did not have time to finish
the sentence, the boy said: "I am wise; whenever he gets to doing
that 'funny business' I'll skiddoo."

The confidence between that mother and son, to my mind, was wonderfully
sublime--all the while practical and helpful in his daily training.

DON'T REPULSE THE CHILD

A little older child sees the fowls, the dogs, or the cats, "mating,"
and then, rushing into the house, inquires what it is all about; and unless
the mother is on her guard some older member of the family may show surprise
and thus thoughtlessly convey to the child's mind that his question
is improper and entirely out of place. To the question, "What are they doing,
mamma?" quietly answer, "Just mating, dear, just as the flowers mate;
everything that lives or grows comes as the result of mating."

Suppose that you were repulsed every time you approached a dear friend,
your husband, or some other member of the family? Take, for instance,
the matter of a caress or an embrace--how would you react to repeated
rebuff? And so with the little child; he comes into this world full
of confidence and trust, full of wonder and curiosity; possessed with
the spirit of exploration and investigation--everywhere and all the
time he asks questions.

Usually, his questions are answered thoughtfully and without hesitancy, except along the line of one thought--that of sex.
Do not think for one moment that he is satisfied by your evasive answers.
You have but to recall your own childhood experiences, and remember that
today the moving picture show and general public sentiment has placed
the age for such knowledge from one to five years earlier in this generation
than in the past.
 No single town was large, yet judging from the number that he saw, Lord estimated
the planetary population in the billions. 

Macaroni, Rice, Polenta, and Other Italian Pastes{*}

* Italian pastes of the best quality can be obtained at Cosenza's,
Wigmore Street, NW. For the following dishes, tagliarelle and spaghetti
are recommended.

No. 182. Macaroni with Tomatoes

Ingredients: Macaroni, tomatoes, butter, onion, basil, pepper, salt.

Fry half an onion slightly in butter, and as soon as it is coloured
add a puree of two big cooked tomatoes.

Then boil quarter of a pound of macaroni separately, drain it and put
it in a deep fireproof dish, add the tomato puree and three tablespoonsful
of grated Parmesan and Cheddar mixed, and cook gently for a quarter
of an hour before serving. This dish may be made with vermicelli,
spaghetti, or any other Italian paste. Even Lord found time to relax. 

"He had a son name Simmon, an' a gal name Sue, not countin' his ol' 'oman, an' dey all live wid one an'er
day atter day, an' night atter night; an' when one un um went abroad,
dey'd be spected home 'bout meal-time, ef not befo', an' dey segashuated right
along fum day ter day, washin' der face an' han's in de same wash-pan
in de back po'ch, an' wipin' on de same towel same ez all happy famblies
allers does.

"Well, time went on an' fotched de changes dat might be spected, an'
one day dar come a mighty knockin' on Brer B'ar's do'. Brer B'ar, he holla
out, he did. 'Who dat come a-knockin' dis time er de year, 'fo' de corn's
done planted, er de cotton-crap's pitched?' De one at de do' make
a big noise, an' rattle de hinges.

Brer B'ar holla out, he did, 'Don't t'ar down my house! Who is you,
anyhow, an' what you want?' An' de answer come, 'I'm one an' darfo' not
two; ef youer mo' dan one, who is you an' what you doin' in dar?' Brer B'ar,
he say, sezee, 'I'm all er one an' mighty nigh two, but I'd thank
you fer ter tell me yo' full fambly name.' Den de answer come.

"'I'm de knocker an' de mover bofe, an' ef I can't clim' over I'll crawl
under ef you do but gi' me de word.

Some calls me Brer Polecat, an' some a big word dat it aint wuff while
ter ermember, but I wanter move in. It's mighty col' out here, an' all I
meets tells me it's mighty warm in dar whar you is.' Den ol' Brer B'ar
say, sezee. 'It's warm nuff fer dem what stays in here, but not nigh
so warm fer dem on de outside. What does you reely want?' Brer Polecat 'spon',
he did, 'I wants a heap er things dat I don't git. I'm a mighty good
housekeeper, but I takes notice dat dar's mighty few folks dat wants
me ter keep house fer um.' Brer B'ar say, sezee, 'I aint got no room
fer no housekeeper; we aint skacely got room fer ter go ter bed.

Ef you kin keep my house on de outside, you er mighty welcome.'

"Brer Polecat say, 'You may think you aint got no room, but I bet you
got des ez much room ez anybody what I know.

Ef you let me in dar one time, I boun' you I'll make all de room I want.'"

Uncle
Remus paused to see what effect this statement would have on the little
boy.

He closed his eyes, as though he were tired, but when he opened them again,
he saw the faint shadow of a smile on the child's face. "'Taint gwine
ter hurt you fer ter laugh a little bit, honey.

Brer Polecat come in Brer B'ar's house, an' he had sech a bad breff
dat dey all hatter git out--an' he stayed an' stayed twel time stopped
runnin' ag'in' him." Although Ann Howard demanded it, Lord couldn't seriously consider
taking measures to stop further desertions.

When Don Howard jumped ship, he brought the issue to a head. Ann maneuvered Lord so that he
would have to take a stand. "I saw the enemy set fire to the Café Matte with petrol. Mme. Matte went
out with a little bag in her hand containing her savings, about two
thousand francs. She was robbed by a German officer, who snatched
the bag away."

The witness added that the Mayor must have been carried off by a patrol,
but in any case he had disappeared.

At Arracourt, M. Maillard was killed in the fields by a bullet which went right
through him; five houses were burned.

The village of Brin-sur-Seille was almost entirely destroyed by fire
lighted by cartridges and round fuses.

Further, the wife of a man at Raucourt who is with the colors, Mme.

X., declared to us that she had been raped in her own house in the
presence of her little boy, aged 3-1/2, by a soldier who had placed the point
of his bayonet on her breast to overcome the resistance which she
opposed to him.

OISE.

In the Department of Oise we have ascertained the following facts:

When
on the 31st of August the Germans entered the village of Monchy-Humières
a group of about fifteen people were in the street looking at them
as they entered.

No act of provocation was committed, but an officer believed that
he heard some one say the word "Prussian."

At once he directed three dragoons to fall out and ordered them to fire.
Young Gaston Dupuis was killed, M. Grandvalet was wounded in the right
shoulder by a bullet, and a little girl of 4 who belonged to a family
of refugees from Verdun was slightly wounded in the neck.

Next day the commune of Ravenel was sacked, and the stolen objects
were taken away in a carriage. A man named Vilette, while bicycling
on the road near the village, met a motor car in which were several Germans.
They began to fire at him without any reason.

He jumped down from his machine and took to flight across country, but a bullet stopped him
on his way.

He died a few hours afterward, leaving a widow and two children.

On the same day, near Méry, the enemy opened fire on some English guns
which were drawn up at the place called Le Bout de la Ville, and
an engagement began between the cavalry of the two armies.

At this moment the Germans entered the sugar factory, which is situated in a hamlet
of the commune. They seized the manager, his family, and all the staff of the
factory, and, during the three hours which the engagement lasted, made them walk
in a parallel line to themselves in order to protect themselves against the
fusillade which was catching them on the flank. Among the twenty-five people
who were thus exposed to grave danger were women and children. A work girl,
Mme. Jeansenne, was killed, and a foreman, Courtois, had a bullet through
his left arm.

At 10 in the evening, the enemy returned in force to the village. They left the next day after having burned
the houses and carried out a general sack.

On the 2d of September the Germans entered Senlis, where they were greeted by
rifle fire from African troops. Alleging that they had been fired on
by civilians, they set fire to two quarters of the town.

One hundred and five houses were burned in the following manner: The Germans
marched along the streets in a column; at a whistle from an officer,
some of them fell out, and proceeded to break in the doors of the
houses and the shop fronts; then others came along and lit the fire
with grenades and rockets; patrols who followed them fired incendiary
bullets with their rifles into those houses in which the fire was
not taking hold fast enough.

While our soldiers were firing in the outskirts of the town, the hostages
who had been taken into the streets by the Germans were forced to walk
in the middle of the road, while the Germans prudently kept to the footpaths.
M. Levasseur, Mme. Dauchy and her little girl aged 5, MM. Pinchaux,
Minouflet, and Leymarie were among the number of the hostages who
were thus exposed to death.

Near the hospital Levasseur was killed. Soon Leymarie in his turn fell mortally
wounded. As he was carrying him to lay him at the foot of a wall, Minouflet
was struck by a bullet on the knee. An officer approached him, and told
him to show his wound, and then suddenly fired with his revolver
into his shoulder.

At the same spot a witness saw another officer in the act of torturing
a French wounded soldier by beating him in the face with a stick.

Meanwhile
several murders were committed. M. Simon was dragged out of his house
and killed by a rifle shot in the side. At 2 o'clock the Germans broke
in the door of M. Mégret's house. The latter came forward, promised to give
them everything they asked for, and brought them ten bottles of wine. He was murdered
by a shot full in the chest. MM. Ramu, Vilcoq, Chambellant and Gaudet,
drawn by curiosity, went to look at the burning forage store to which
the French troops had set fire as they retired.

Enemy soldiers fired on them several times. Ramu was wounded, Gaudet
was killed on the spot, Chambellant received two bullets, one in his
right hand and the other below the groin, and died a week later.

She reached for his hand, but Lord turned away from her quickly so that she could not again
open the raw wound of shame in his soul. He followed Don Howard into the forest.

"You won't get away with it, Lord," Howard said grimly. "No trade agent can impose a treaty--"

"Would a trusteeship be any better?"

"Lord, no!" 

It would give me little pleasure to recount, and the reader, in all
likelihood, as little to hear, the details of my life among such
associates.

They are the passages of my history most painful to recall, and least
worthy of being remembered; nor can I even yet write without shame the
confession, how rapidly their habits became my own. Eugene's teachings
had prepared me, in a manner, for their lessons.

His skepticism extending to every thing and every one, had made me
distrustful of all friendship, and suspicious of whatever appeared
a kindness.

Vulgar association, and daily intimacy with coarsely-minded men, soon finished
what he had begun; and in less time than it took me to break my troop-horse
to regimental drill, I had been myself "broke in" to every vice and abandoned
habit of my companions.

It was not in my nature to do things by halves; and thus I became,
and in a brief space too, the most inveterate Tapageur of the whole
regiment.

There was not a wild prank or plot in which I was not foremost, not a breach
of the discipline unaccompanied by my name or presence, and more
than half the time of our march to meet the enemy, I passed in double
irons under the guard of the Provost-marshal.

It was at this pleasant stage of my education that our brigade arrived
in Strasbourg, as part of the corps d'armée under the command of General
Moreau.

He had just succeeded to the command on the dismissal of Pichegru,
and found the army not only dispirited by the defeats of the past
campaign, but in a state of rudest indiscipline and disorganization.

If left to himself, he would have trusted much to time and circumstances
for the reform of abuses that had been the growth of many months
long.

But Regnier, the second in command, was made of "different stuff;" he was a harsh and stern disciplinarian,
who rarely forgave a first, never a second offense, and who deeming
the Salle de Police as an incumbrance to an army on service, which,
besides, required a guard of picked men, that might be better employed
elsewhere, usually gave the preference to the shorter sentence of
"four spaces and a fusillade."

Nor was he particular in the classification of those crimes he thus
expiated: from the most trivial excess to the wildest scheme of insubordination,
all came under the one category.

More than
once, as we drew near to Strasbourg, I heard the project of a mutiny
discussed, day after day.

Some one or other would denounce the "scelerat Regnier," and proclaim his readiness to be the executioner;
but the closer we drew to head-quarters, the more hushed and subdued
became these mutterings, till at last they ceased altogether; and
a dark and forboding dread succeeded to all our late boastings and
denunciations.

This at first surprised and then utterly disgusted me with my companions.

Brave as they were before the enemy, had they no courage for their own
countrymen?

Was all their valor the offspring of security, or could they only be rebellious when the penalty
had no terrors for them? Alas!

I was very young, and did not then know that men are never strong against the right, and that a bad
cause is always a weak one.

It was about the middle of June when we reached Strasbourg, where now
about forty thousand troops were assembled. I shall not readily forget
the mingled astonishment and disappointment our appearance excited
as the regiment entered the town.

The Tapageurs, so celebrated for all their terrible excesses and insubordination, were seen to
be a fine corps of soldier-like fellows, their horses in high condition,
their equipments and arms in the very best order.

Neither
did our conduct at all tally with the reputation that preceded us.

All was orderly and regular in the several billets; the parade was particularly observed; not a man late
at the night muster. What was the cause of this sudden and remarkable
change? Some said we were marching against the enemy; but the real
explanation lay in a few words of a general order read to us by our colonel
the day before we entered the city:
"The 9th Hussars have obtained the unworthy reputation of being an
ill-disciplined and ill-conducted regiment, relying upon their soldier-like
qualities in face of the enemy to cover the disgrace of-their misconduct
in quarters.

Page 16: "How?{superfluous quotation mark removed} A law is a statement of a truth in human
relationship;

