With notes by the Rev. H. H. Milman

Vol. 3

1782 (Written), 1845 (Revised)

Chapter XXVII: Civil Wars, Reign Of Theodosius.--Part I.

     Death Of Gratian.--Ruin Of Arianism.--St. Ambrose.--
     First Civil War, Against Maximus.--Character,
     Administration, And Penance Of Theodosius.--Death Of
     Valentinian II.--Second Civil War, Against Eugenius.--
     Death Of Theodosius.

The fame of Gratian, before he had accomplished the twentieth year of his age, was equal to
that of the most celebrated princes. His gentle and amiable disposition endeared him to his
private friends, the graceful affability of his manners engaged the affection of the people:
the men of letters, who enjoyed the liberality, acknowledged the taste and eloquence, of their
sovereign; his valor and dexterity in arms were equally applauded by the soldiers; and the
clergy considered the humble piety of Gratian as the first and most useful of his virtues.
The victory of Colmar had delivered the West from a formidable invasion; and the grateful provinces
of the East ascribed the merits of Theodosius to the author of his greatness, and of the public
safety. Gratian survived those memorable events only four or five years; but he survived his
reputation; and, before he fell a victim to rebellion, he had lost, in a great measure, the
respect and confidence of the Roman world.

The remarkable alteration of his character or conduct may not be imputed to the arts of flattery,
which had besieged the son of Valentinian from his infancy; nor to the headstrong passions
which the that gentle youth appears to have escaped. A more attentive view of the life of Gratian
may perhaps suggest the true cause of the disappointment of the public hopes. His apparent
virtues, instead of being the hardy productions of experience and adversity, were the premature
and artificial fruits of a royal education. The anxious tenderness of his father was continually
employed to bestow on him those advantages, which he might perhaps esteem the more highly,
as he himself had been deprived of them; and the most skilful masters of every science, and
of every art, had labored to form the mind and body of the young prince. The knowledge which
they painfully communicated was displayed with ostentation, and celebrated with lavish praise.
His soft and tractable disposition received the fair impression of their judicious precepts,
and the absence of passion might easily be mistaken for the strength of reason. His preceptors
gradually rose to the rank and consequence of ministers of state: and, as they wisely dissembled
their secret authority, he seemed to act with firmness, with propriety, and with judgment,
on the most important occasions of his life and reign. But the influence of this elaborate
instruction did not penetrate beyond the surface; and the skilful preceptors, who so accurately
guided the steps of their royal pupil, could not infuse into his feeble and indolent character
the vigorous and independent principle of action which renders the laborious pursuit of glory
essentially necessary to the happiness, and almost to the existence, of the hero. As soon as
time and accident had removed those faithful counsellors from the throne, the emperor of the
West insensibly descended to the level of his natural genius; abandoned the reins of government
to the ambitious hands which were stretched forwards to grasp them; and amused his leisure
with the most frivolous gratifications. A public sale of favor and injustice was instituted,
both in the court and in the provinces, by the worthless delegates of his power, whose merit
it was made sacrilege to question. The conscience of the credulous prince was directed by saints
and bishops; who procured an Imperial edict to punish, as a capital offence, the violation,
the neglect, or even the ignorance, of the divine law. Among the various arts which had exercised
the youth of Gratian, he had applied himself, with singular inclination and success, to manage
the horse, to draw the bow, and to dart the javelin; and these qualifications, which might
be useful to a soldier, were prostituted to the viler purposes of hunting. Large parks were
enclosed for the Imperial pleasures, and plentifully stocked with every species of wild beasts;
and Gratian neglected the duties, and even the dignity, of his rank, to consume whole days
in the vain display of his dexterity and boldness in the chase. The pride and wish of the Roman
emperor to excel in an art, in which he might be surpassed by the meanest of his slaves, reminded
the numerous spectators of the examples of Nero and Commodus, but the chaste and temperate
Gratian was a stranger to their monstrous vices; and his hands were stained only with the blood
of animals. The behavior of Gratian, which degraded his character in the eyes of mankind, could
not have disturbed the security of his reign, if the army had not been provoked to resent their
peculiar injuries. As long as the young emperor was guided by the instructions of his masters,
he professed himself the friend and pupil of the soldiers; many of his hours were spent in
the familiar conversation of the camp; and the health, the comforts, the rewards, the honors,
of his faithful troops, appeared to be the objects of his attentive concern. But, after Gratian
more freely indulged his prevailing taste for hunting and shooting, he naturally connected
himself with the most dexterous ministers of his favorite amusement. A body of the Alani was
received into the military and domestic service of the palace; and the admirable skill, which
they were accustomed to display in the unbounded plains of Scythia, was exercised, on a more
narrow theatre, in the parks and enclosures of Gaul. "I hope no effort to persuade sister yours,"
he added, as in passing.

The pharmacist laughed the colonel laughed not at all, but bypassed the two milk cows in the stable with
a critical eye, she knocked on the course and noticed : "A few years
ago I was in Fray Bentos and saw me there meat extract to the Institute.

Great! - You to drive you in the eyes of an ox in the retort and deliver it to you after ten minutes in a
can of concentrate, which is in her pocket - would be the ocean not there, you can call out
to the astonishment of her yours, you knew so no point, Philip. And two weeks ago I was with Liebig
in Munich - nearly the same smell and fragrance As with you, just a bit metallic, - Kristeller, we
can also use each other - I'll give you the cattle, and you give me the lieferst extract, - Philip,
I give you my word of honor, in three years, we make the men to Fray Bentos a competition, they
move to tears. "Augustin O, what a wonderful sense of humor you have brought over with your new country
of "cried the druggist," but - "" humor? "said the Colonel very seriously
and put added almost screaming," Pay!

Pay!
The most thorough, firmest calculations: Here! - There! "He had already pulled out his wallet and
read the in flight a few friends, in fact, very thoroughly extract
the meat-manufacturing terms of numbers having her on.

Mr Philip Kristeller rubbed in ever increasing rigidity of the front: "The nurse - the nurse should hear this,"
he muttered, and now Colonel smiled the gendarmerie again at last
and said, "I will of course have the dinner at your good sister with
our plans to publicize it and seek to win them to her.

I am sure she will not be so stiff-wonder as you stand there and my sense of humor only praise.
"" O thou great God, "sighed Mr. Philipp. The goat, which in addition to the two cows in the barn under
the special care of Miss Dorette Kristeller Booksellers a pleasure
being lived, passed over the Colonel, without further comment, however,
he spoke in the chicken yard, shaking his head: "The cattle here reminds
me always remarkably vivid in my late mother."

He had the letter board the hand kept in, and made from time to time, some notes . Nearly two
hours brought the two men on their inspection tour, and when she
returned to the house, they found the chief medical officer in the
pharmacy and they are waiting for a drink from the famous Kristeller'schen
Magenliqueur before him on the table with his customary joviality
welcomed. the Doctor entering the two gentlemen.

They shook hands upright in a circle and asked each other most heartily for the night and the other
condition. "What a week we write because today really," asked the colonel, his wallet still in hand
carrying.

"The you, the barber, who as hinrennt just say do best, "laughed
the doctor Hanff," the plow farmers is the more than a week stubble,
it is Saturday - "And tomorrow I go for the first time since a generation
the German church again, "cried the Colonel Dom Agostin Agonista delighted.

"Day after tomorrow I am leaving." August? - Augustin? Cried terrified
Mr Philip Kristeller. "Colonel?" Said astonished Miss Dorette Kristeller.
But the chief medical officer, his glass vigorously pushing back shouted: "all
circumstances impossible under, Colonel, the forester Ulebeule met
me, he is with an invitation to dinner on the road Monday, Tuesday,
I beg for the honor on Wednesday, the series comes to the pastor,
and on Thursday - but since we do not anticipate the other men at
any rate let us not under any circumstances as soon on, Colonel.

Who is a rare bird as you have in your hands, which
keeps him as long as possible finds.

Give me another> Kristeller <a dear
Kristeller, and take one too, my dear Colonel, you seem to have no
right inkling of it to which good and nice things about the local
planetary body produces.

"CHAPTER XIII. The forester, who in this moment the door was heard in, what was discussed,
and addressed immediately with the others vigorously and urgently to the old, brave, a South American
warrior on.

This, however, defended only by silent gestures, at the same time he served up the glass with the nickname
Bitter Kristeller'schen to the light and holding durchäugelnd. Now he put the cup to his lips
- drank - was one - tried again with a deeper devotion - poured the
rest with a certain wild fervor down the throat - glass handed immediately
to the new filling of pot-bellied green bottle back and cried: "By
my soul, that's really finally - finally a G etr ä nk!"

Not true? "Doctor asked the forester and the serious, while the pharmacists' a wild man," bashful,
happy is the sister on the shoulder, smiling.

"By the gods, that's a beverage, Philip! And you are truly the inventor of it? And you have the recipe
to under lock and key? - And you sit here forever in this lost corner
and turn to the doctor because his pills and stir him up his mixtures?
- Miss Kristeller, I would ask immediately after dinner, a private
conversation!

Gentlemen, this changes the situation, perhaps, rather forester, in the course of the afternoon,
I will allow me to give notice to you, if I assume can invite your
or not. "" Bravo!

Called "the chief medical officer and the forester, the pharmacist
said "You stay so without condition, dear, and it was absolutely not
necessary to our horror in the limbs to a such a hunt.

It was not friendly and brotherly, Augustin ".

I have a> Kristeller 'please,' replied the colonel. "Philip, to your
health!

I assure you, I love you had, but now comes the respect of love, - gentlemen, you have these thirty
years by a great man in your midst had, without knowing it. Philipp, your brandy is wonderful thing
But for my departure, it is always like us with guns on the march, and we must just take a woman
driving a business and civil, to learn to sit still. At the high gods, this one is perhaps more
profitable than Fray Bentos! Kristeller, we are over the seventh heaven by a fiery distillation
bring down on the earth. Miss Dorette, we flash to the sun and the bottles move on and put our
prices accordingly. Kristeller and Agonista - Sao Paradiso - Province of Minas Geraes, Empire
of Brazil!

With this drink in the arm we get through with all nations around
the globe.

We get through, madam, and as I said, for dinner I ask myself a comfortable Plauderviertelstündchen in
the back room, Lady Dorothea. "She did not laugh all, only the young lady. What laughter of the
inventive master anbetraf that, then made the one absolutely bewildered and helpless impression.
A man, however, the life itself was behind, as the Colonel Agonista
could, indeed, the earth with other eyes to see in and with other
hand grasp than the house community and the family friends of the
pharmacy to wild man ", and could also, without to be accountable
to ensure the other naively require that we imagine to its position.

The Colonel Dom Agostin Agonista could really solid unshakable determination to give its, once
again, and after a generation, the fortune and fate of his friend Philip the other side to
turn Kristeller on, without which objections and remonstrances to
listen to anything.

Since Now the hall with all sorts of customers filled the so accompanied
the gallant old soldier, but the forester and the doctor on their
way back to the village.

He walked between them, each holding under his arm, and who met the threes, stopped and watched
them, who had to admit it, the three that everyone in his way "was
good from.

This, however, was the talk of the gentlemen at the old Philip and his "Kristeller", and even
in this short routes Colonel received the Brazilian police, some very useful notes on the pharmacy
"a wild man," and came cheerful whistling and the pure , fresh autumn air pleasantly einschlürfend
back - just in time for lunch. We dined, we held siesta - the Colonel his own this time in his
honorary chair in bilderbunten back room. point three clock he was refreshed again in the dispensary
to have a "Kristeller take "too. He knew the way to the kitchen quite
well and did not need a guide on it."

Miss Dorette, "he said," now would be the best moment so far.

Philip I have just the good of its material leads to chamber, and both of us, dear lady, have
down here the kingdom alone. Children, children, I am a child, family
together with you to be so!

And
we remain a family - you know, we remain a family? - It's too beautiful! Out there, the German autumn
sky, here inside the stove warmth and German - the love Brazil as the land of promise in
the distance! Lady, I beg you to offer my arm. "He really led the old lady anxiously over his shoulder
retrospective in their own room, the house Ehrengemach, and remained with her about half an hour
inside and in urgent negotiations and while the brother, his emotions, at least to remain a little
master, in his material chamber all herbal bags on and abtürmte and all drawers teased and pushed
over. Half an hour can even the phlegmatic people sometimes long look very, which is a known truth, must
here, however, be repeated regardless. The pharmacists' the wild man, "was published the short period
is very long, Miss Dorette other hand, he went over very quickly. Even the colonel opened the
door of her kindly parlor and - had it out. He stayed in there! - She held the door-posts
of a vertigo attack like - they had a soldier make curtsy to the brave, but it was not her have been
possible. While she was leaning against the wall, but outside, and
how suddenly went blind eye in order to strove to see, was the colonel
went inside, whistling softly to the window and had opened it and
placed Drein.

As he lay heavily on his elbow, gave out a heavy sigh and looked
along the road towards the right and left.

The young lady put out both hands to his temples and also pushed out a sigh and moaned about this:
"Good God, just as I thought I had it! o my God, my poor, poor brother! "From his window, shouted
the Colonel one passing by the village boys to," Hey, miin Jung ', you know the Lord Forester
Ulebeule and do you know where he lives? "Well? "asked the boy to the wall up, indignant if
the naivete of the question." Well, my son. I'm waiting here with five pennies in his hand
on you. Run 'once to Mr. Forster and order' a nice greeting from the stranger in the pharmacy,
and pharmacists and the Lord would be a pleasure to the strange gentleman, on Monday in which Mr.
Forster to eat. "The boy ran from the mountains and saw race several times back in if the white-headed
man with the brown face in the window really keep my word, and with
the requisite fee present staying.

Down in the back room, the seat of honor of the Brazilian colonel, sat Miss Dorette Kristeller,
elbow propped on the table and the face on his hands and moaned softly, "My brother, my poor brother!"
Chapter Fourteen. The next day was Sunday, a German village Sunday. The bell rang for church,
and the pastor had finished his sermon Schonlank and ready. With the hymn of his friend Philip
under his arm, and worthy of the friend's sister was also a leader of the Brazilian Colonel Dom
Agostin Agostina in the church and in uniform. He had small valise and suitcase fully unpacked
his and his appearance festive decorated. He was wearing all his medals and was not only martial, but
really is very beautiful and elegant and disturbed the devotions
of the village by its appearance completely.

He also sang. The pastor in the sacristy he heard about the organ, the cantor and the congregation away
- such a sonorous bass was not the curvature of the small church
shaken for long.

After church arms had the foreign soldiers, in turn, Miss Dorette Kristeller on leader say the
parade of the whole community lose weight.

It was lined on its way, and good-natured smile, and on and on to his cap comprehensively, step-colonel
from the hedge marvel Bauer faces by the. The village spoke today only of him, Miss Dorothy
was very uncomfortable from the church back home and felt forced to bed to lie down and the rest
of the day to stay in it. The following day the colonel went to his friend Philipp Förster Ulebeule
on a boar's head. Miss Dorette sat in front of the arithmetic books of the house. The men in
the lodge were very merry at dinner, the colonel told again by the glory of his new home
and brought the people from the quiet corner of the earth almost
beside himself by his eloquence and the colorful descriptions.

This time he called Doctor on to go over with and a millionaire and imperial secret Hofmedicus to
be, and already at the fourth bottle was the chief medical officer is Colonel firmly promised and handshake
his word sealed by. "With you, dear Pastor, we know less over there to start, "said Dom Agostino,"
but we will pick perhaps for even if we do our own house bands have built. "As Lord had the spiritual
smiled, but said something pitiful," We are surely to such emigration
a little too old, sir.

Even things you would previously have to talk with my good woman all before, dear lord. "Why should
I not, if other conditions permit," asked the Brazilian. They were very pleased with the Forester
Ulebeule, and only at much advanced dusk came Philip and August in the arm and shoulder to shoulder,
arm and highly stimulated a lively home to the pharmacy.

"From the 'Kristeller' I beg a bottle on the bedside table, dear old boy," said the colonel. "He
charmed me again and again, even after dinner. Pereat Fray Bentos, - so
here I call truth in a concentrated broth! The devil take all the cattle
in the Pampas, - as we Feuertrank here in the place so cook them,
as it will only fire over there in the country fail, Fi - lip - po!

"De - li kat -! "said Mr Philip Kristeller, as the two friends to
each other quite heartily kissed three times. They sat by the way
that night alone in the back room, Colonel and the pharmacists" the
wild man 'of.

Miss Dorette could be maid apologize and by heruntersagen this: they have grievous headache. The two men were
hinaufsagen immediately: the do them very sorry and wish from my
heart a speedy recovery - after they sat until midnight in the gallery
together against talked and wrapped in tobacco smoke, from their youth.

When the clock struck twelve, stood at the colonel and said warmly: "You know not quite how good
it is here to mute me, Philip.

We shall also from now on, not separate from each other again, old
man

!
 They
had cultivated, with equal ardor, the same liberal studies in the schools of Athens; they had
retired, with equal devotion, to the same solitude in the deserts of Pontus; and every spark
of emulation, or envy, appeared to be totally extinguished in the holy and ingenuous breasts
of Gregory and Basil. But the exaltation of Basil, from a private life to the archiepiscopal
throne of Cæsarea, discovered to the world, and perhaps to himself, the pride of his character;
and the first favor which he condescended to bestow on his friend, was received, and perhaps
was intended, as a cruel insult. Instead of employing the superior talents of Gregory in some
useful and conspicuous station, the haughty prelate selected, among the fifty bishoprics of
his extensive province, the wretched village of Sasima, without water, without verdure, without
society, situate at the junction of three highways, and frequented only by the incessant passage
of rude and clamorous wagoners. Gregory submitted with reluctance to this humiliating exile;
he was ordained bishop of Sasima; but he solemnly protests, that he never consummated his spiritual
marriage with this disgusting bride. He afterwards consented to undertake the government of
his native church of Nazianzus, of which his father had been bishop above five-and-forty years.
But as he was still conscious that he deserved another audience, and another theatre, he accepted,
with no unworthy ambition, the honorable invitation, which was addressed to him from the orthodox
party of Constantinople. On his arrival in the capital, Gregory was entertained in the house
of a pious and charitable kinsman; the most spacious room was consecrated to the uses of religious
worship; and the name of Anastasia was chosen to express the resurrection of the Nicene faith.
This private conventicle was afterwards converted into a magnificent church; and the credulity
of the succeeding age was prepared to believe the miracles and visions, which attested the
presence, or at least the protection, of the Mother of God. The pulpit of the Anastasia was
the scene of the labors and triumphs of Gregory Nazianzen; and, in the space of two years,
he experienced all the spiritual adventures which constitute the prosperous or adverse fortunes
of a missionary. The Arians, who were provoked by the boldness of his enterprise, represented
his doctrine, as if he had preached three distinct and equal Deities; and the devout populace
was excited to suppress, by violence and tumult, the irregular assemblies of the Athanasian
heretics. From the cathedral of St. Sophia there issued a motley crowd "of common beggars,
who had forfeited their claim to pity; of monks, who had the appearance of goats or satyrs;
and of women, more terrible than so many Jezebels." The doors of the Anastasia were broke open;
much mischief was perpetrated, or attempted, with sticks, stones, and firebrands; and as a
man lost his life in the affray, Gregory, who was summoned the next morning before the magistrate,
had the satisfaction of supposing, that he publicly confessed the name of Christ. After he
was delivered from the fear and danger of a foreign enemy, his infant church was disgraced
and distracted by intestine faction. A stranger who assumed the name of Maximus, and the cloak
of a Cynic philosopher, insinuated himself into the confidence of Gregory; deceived and abused
his favorable opinion; and forming a secret connection with some bishops of Egypt, attempted,
by a clandestine ordination, to supplant his patron in the episcopal seat of Constantinople.
These mortifications might sometimes tempt the Cappadocian missionary to regret his obscure
solitude. But his fatigues were rewarded by the daily increase of his fame and his congregation;
and he enjoyed the pleasure of observing, that the greater part of his numerous audience retired
from his sermons satisfied with the eloquence of the preacher, or dissatisfied with the manifold
imperfections of their faith and practice.

The Catholics of Constantinople were animated with joyful confidence by the baptism and edict
of Theodosius; and they impatiently waited the effects of his gracious promise. Their hopes
were speedily accomplished; and the emperor, as soon as he had finished the operations of the
campaign, made his public entry into the capital at the head of a victorious army. The next
day after his arrival, he summoned Damophilus to his presence, and offered that Arian prelate
the hard alternative of subscribing the Nicene creed, or of instantly resigning, to the orthodox
believers, the use and possession of the episcopal palace, the cathedral of St. Sophia, and
all the churches of Constantinople. The zeal of Damophilus, which in a Catholic saint would
have been justly applauded, embraced, without hesitation, a life of poverty and exile, and
his removal was immediately followed by the purification of the Imperial city. The Arians might
complain, with some appearance of justice, that an inconsiderable congregation of sectaries
should usurp the hundred churches, which they were insufficient to fill; whilst the far greater
part of the people was cruelly excluded from every place of religious worship. Theodosius was
still inexorable; but as the angels who protected the Catholic cause were only visible to the
eyes of faith, he prudently reënforced those heavenly legions with the more effectual aid of
temporal and carnal weapons; and the church of St. Sophia was occupied by a large body of the
Imperial guards. If the mind of Gregory was susceptible of pride, he must have felt a very
lively satisfaction, when the emperor conducted him through the streets in solemn triumph;
and, with his own hand, respectfully placed him on the archiepiscopal throne of Constantinople.
But the saint (who had not subdued the imperfections of human virtue) was deeply affected by
the mortifying consideration, that his entrance into the fold was that of a wolf, rather than
of a shepherd; that the glittering arms which surrounded his person, were necessary for his
safety; and that he alone was the object of the imprecations of a great party, whom, as men
and citizens, it was impossible for him to despise. He beheld the innumerable multitude of
either sex, and of every age, who crowded the streets, the windows, and the roofs of the houses;
he heard the tumultuous voice of rage, grief, astonishment, and despair; and Gregory fairly
confesses, that on the memorable day of his installation, the capital of the East wore the
appearance of a city taken by storm, and in the hands of a Barbarian conqueror. The writings
of the Arians, if they had been permitted to exist, would perhaps contain the lamentable story
of the persecution, which afflicted the church under the reign of the impious Theodosius; and
the sufferings of their holy confessors might claim the pity of the disinterested reader. Yet
there is reason to imagine, that the violence of zeal and revenge was, in some measure, eluded
by the want of resistance; and that, in their adversity, the Arians displayed much less firmness
than had been exerted by the orthodox party under the reigns of Constantius and Valens. The
moral character and conduct of the hostile sects appear to have been governed by the same common
principles of nature and religion: but a very material circumstance may be discovered, which
tended to distinguish the degrees of their theological faith. Both parties, in the schools,
as well as in the temples, acknowledged and worshipped the divine majesty of Christ; and, as
we are always prone to impute our own sentiments and passions to the Deity, it would be deemed
more prudent and respectful to exaggerate, than to circumscribe, the adorable perfections of
the Son of God. The disciple of Athanasius exulted in the proud confidence, that he had entitled
himself to the divine favor; while the follower of Arius must have been tormented by the secret
apprehension, that he was guilty, perhaps, of an unpardonable offence, by the scanty praise,
and parsimonious honors, which he bestowed on the Judge of the World. The opinions of Arianism
might satisfy a cold and speculative mind: but the doctrine of the Nicene creed, most powerfully
recommended by the merits of faith and devotion, was much better adapted to become popular
and successful in a believing age.

The hope, that truth and wisdom would be found in the assemblies of the orthodox clergy, induced
the emperor to convene, at Constantinople, a synod of one hundred and fifty bishops, who proceeded,
without much difficulty or delay, to complete the theological system which had been established
in the council of Nice. The vehement disputes of the fourth century had been chiefly employed
on the nature of the Son of God; and the various opinions which were embraced, concerning the
Second, were extended and transferred, by a natural analogy, to the Third person of the Trinity.
Yet it was found, or it was thought, necessary, by the victorious adversaries of Arianism,
to explain the ambiguous language of some respectable doctors; to confirm the faith of the
Catholics; and to condemn an unpopular and inconsistent sect of Macedonians; who freely admitted
that the Son was consubstantial to the Father, while they were fearful of seeming to acknowledge
the existence of Three Gods. A final and unanimous sentence was pronounced to ratify the equal
Deity of the Holy Ghost: the mysterious doctrine has been received by all the nations, and
all the churches of the Christian world; and their grateful reverence has assigned to the bishops
of Theodosius the second rank among the general councils. Their knowledge of religious truth
may have been preserved by tradition, or it may have been communicated by inspiration; but
the sober evidence of history will not allow much weight to the personal authority of the Fathers
of Constantinople. In an age when the ecclesiastics had scandalously degenerated from the model
of apostolic purity, the most worthless and corrupt were always the most eager to frequent,
and disturb, the episcopal assemblies. The conflict and fermentation of so many opposite interests
and tempers inflamed the passions of the bishops: and their ruling passions were, the love
of gold, and the love of dispute. Many of the same prelates who now applauded the orthodox
piety of Theodosius, had repeatedly changed, with prudent flexibility, their creeds and opinions;
and in the various revolutions of the church and state, the religion of their sovereign was
the rule of their obsequious faith. When the emperor suspended his prevailing influence, the
turbulent synod was blindly impelled by the absurd or selfish motives of pride, hatred, or
resentment. The death of Meletius, which happened at the council of Constantinople, presented
the most favorable opportunity of terminating the schism of Antioch, by suffering his aged
rival, Paulinus, peaceably to end his days in the episcopal chair. The faith and virtues of
Paulinus were unblemished. But his cause was supported by the Western churches; and the bishops
of the synod resolved to perpetuate the mischiefs of discord, by the hasty ordination of a
perjured candidate, rather than to betray the imagined dignity of the East, which had been
illustrated by the birth and death of the Son of God. Such unjust and disorderly proceedings
forced the gravest members of the assembly to dissent and to secede; and the clamorous majority
which remained masters of the field of battle, could be compared only to wasps or magpies,
to a flight of cranes, or to a flock of geese.

A suspicion may possibly arise, that so unfavorable a picture of ecclesiastical synods has
been drawn by the partial hand of some obstinate heretic, or some malicious infidel. But the
name of the sincere historian who has conveyed this instructive lesson to the knowledge of
posterity, must silence the impotent murmurs of superstition and bigotry. He was one of the
most pious and eloquent bishops of the age; a saint, and a doctor of the church; the scourge
of Arianism, and the pillar of the orthodox faith; a distinguished member of the council of
Constantinople, in which, after the death of Meletius, he exercised the functions of president;
in a word--Gregory Nazianzen himself. The harsh and ungenerous treatment which he experienced,
instead of derogating from the truth of his evidence, affords an additional proof of the spirit
which actuated the deliberations of the synod. Their unanimous suffrage had confirmed the pretensions
which the bishop of Constantinople derived from the choice of the people, and the approbation
of the emperor. But Gregory soon became the victim of malice and envy. The bishops of the East,
his strenuous adherents, provoked by his moderation in the affairs of Antioch, abandoned him,
without support, to the adverse faction of the Egyptians; who disputed the validity of his
election, and rigorously asserted the obsolete canon, that prohibited the licentious practice
of episcopal translations. The pride, or the humility, of Gregory prompted him to decline a
contest which might have been imputed to ambition and avarice; and he publicly offered, not
without some mixture of indignation, to renounce the government of a church which had been
restored, and almost created, by his labors. His resignation was accepted by the synod, and
by the emperor, with more readiness than he seems to have expected. At the time when he might
have hoped to enjoy the fruits of his victory, his episcopal throne was filled by the senator
Nectarius; and the new archbishop, accidentally recommended by his easy temper and venerable
aspect, was obliged to delay the ceremony of his consecration, till he had previously despatched
the rites of his baptism. After this remarkable experience of the ingratitude of princes and
prelates, Gregory retired once more to his obscure solitude of Cappadocia; where he employed
the remainder of his life, about eight years, in the exercises of poetry and devotion. The
title of Saint has been added to his name: but the tenderness of his heart, and the elegance
of his genius, reflect a more pleasing lustre on the memory of Gregory Nazianzen.

It was not enough that Theodosius had suppressed the insolent reign of Arianism, or that he
had abundantly revenged the injuries which the Catholics sustained from the zeal of Constantius
and Valens. The penal statutes were directed against the ministers, the assemblies, and the
persons of the heretics; and the passions of the legislator were expressed in the language
of declamation and invective. I. The heretical teachers, who usurped the sacred titles of Bishops,
or Presbyters, were not only excluded from the privileges and emoluments so liberally granted
to the orthodox clergy, but they were exposed to the heavy penalties of exile and confiscation,
if they presumed to preach the doctrine, or to practise the rites, of their accursed sects.
A fine of ten pounds of gold (above four hundred pounds sterling) was imposed on every person
who should dare to confer, or receive, or promote, an heretical ordination: and it was reasonably
expected, that if the race of pastors could be extinguished, their helpless flocks would be
compelled, by ignorance and hunger, to return within the pale of the Catholic church. II. The
rigorous prohibition of conventicles was carefully extended to every possible circumstance,
in which the heretics could assemble with the intention of worshipping God and Christ according
to the dictates of their conscience. Their religious meetings, whether public or secret, by
day or by night, in cities or in the country, were equally proscribed by the edicts of Theodosius;
and the building, or ground, which had been used for that illegal purpose, was forfeited to
the Imperial domain. III. It was supposed, that the error of the heretics could proceed only
from the obstinate temper of their minds; and that such a temper was a fit object of censure
and punishment. The anathemas of the church were fortified by a sort of civil excommunication;
which separated them from their fellow-citizens, by a peculiar brand of infamy; and this declaration
of the supreme magistrate tended to justify, or at least to excuse, the insults of a fanatic
populace. The sectaries were gradually disqualified from the possession of honorable or lucrative
employments; and Theodosius was satisfied with his own justice, when he decreed, that, as the
Eunomians distinguished the nature of the Son from that of the Father, they should be incapable
of making their wills or of receiving any advantage from testamentary donations. The guilt
of the Manichæan heresy was esteemed of such magnitude, that it could be expiated only by the
death of the offender; and the same capital punishment was inflicted on the Audians, or Quartodecimans,
who should dare to perpetrate the atrocious crime of celebrating on an improper day the festival
of Easter. Every Roman might exercise the right of public accusation; but the office of Inquisitors
of the Faith, a name so deservedly abhorred, was first instituted under the reign of Theodosius.
Yet we are assured, that the execution of his penal edicts was seldom enforced; and that the
pious emperor appeared less desirous to punish, than to reclaim, or terrify, his refractory
subjects.

The theory of persecution was established by Theodosius, whose justice and piety have been
applauded by the saints: but the practice of it, in the fullest extent, was reserved for his
rival and colleague, Maximus, the first, among the Christian princes, who shed the blood of
his Christian subjects on account of their religious opinions. The cause of the Priscillianists,
a recent sect of heretics, who disturbed the provinces of Spain, was transferred, by appeal,
from the synod of Bordeaux to the Imperial consistory of Treves; and by the sentence of the
Prætorian præfect, seven persons were tortured, condemned, and executed. The first of these
was Priscillian himself, bishop of Avila, in Spain; who adorned the advantages of birth and
fortune, by the accomplishments of eloquence and learning. Two presbyters, and two deacons,
accompanied their beloved master in his death, which they esteemed as a glorious martyrdom;
and the number of religious victims was completed by the execution of Latronian, a poet, who
rivalled the fame of the ancients; and of Euchrocia, a noble matron of Bordeaux, the widow
of the orator Delphidius. Two bishops who had embraced the sentiments of Priscillian, were
condemned to a distant and dreary exile; and some indulgence was shown to the meaner criminals,
who assumed the merit of an early repentance. If any credit could be allowed to confessions
extorted by fear or pain, and to vague reports, the offspring of malice and credulity, the
heresy of the Priscillianists would be found to include the various abominations of magic,
of impiety, and of lewdness. Priscillian, who wandered about the world in the company of his
spiritual sisters, was accused of praying stark naked in the midst of the congregation; and
it was confidently asserted, that the effects of his criminal intercourse with the daughter
of Euchrocia had been suppressed, by means still more odious and criminal. But an accurate,
or rather a candid, inquiry will discover, that if the Priscillianists violated the laws of
nature, it was not by the licentiousness, but by the austerity, of their lives. They absolutely
condemned the use of the marriage-bed; and the peace of families was often disturbed by indiscreet
separations. They enjoyed, or recommended, a total abstinence from all anima food; and their
continual prayers, fasts, and vigils, inculcated a rule of strict and perfect devotion. The
speculative tenets of the sect, concerning the person of Christ, and the nature of the human
soul, were derived from the Gnostic and Manichæan system; and this vain philosophy, which had
been transported from Egypt to Spain, was ill adapted to the grosser spirits of the West. The
obscure disciples of Priscillian suffered languished, and gradually disappeared: his tenets
were rejected by the clergy and people, but his death was the subject of a long and vehement
controversy; while some arraigned, and others applauded, the justice of his sentence. It is
with pleasure that we can observe the humane inconsistency of the most illustrious saints and
bishops, Ambrose of Milan, and Martin of Tours, who, on this occasion, asserted the cause of
toleration. They pitied the unhappy men, who had been executed at Treves; they refused to hold
communion with their episcopal murderers; and if Martin deviated from that generous resolution,
his motives were laudable, and his repentance was exemplary. The bishops of Tours and Milan
pronounced, without hesitation, the eternal damnation of heretics; but they were surprised,
and shocked, by the bloody image of their temporal death, and the honest feelings of nature
resisted the artificial prejudices of theology. The humanity of Ambrose and Martin was confirmed
by the scandalous irregularity of the proceedings against Priscillian and his adherents. The
civil and ecclesiastical ministers had transgressed the limits of their respective provinces.
The secular judge had presumed to receive an appeal, and to pronounce a definitive sentence,
in a matter of faith, and episcopal jurisdiction. The bishops had disgraced themselves, by
exercising the functions of accusers in a criminal prosecution. The cruelty of Ithacius, who
beheld the tortures, and solicited the death, of the heretics, provoked the just indignation
of mankind; and the vices of that profligate bishop were admitted as a proof, that his zeal
was instigated by the sordid motives of interest. Since the death of Priscillian, the rude
attempts of persecution have been refined and methodized in the holy office, which assigns
their distinct parts to the ecclesiastical and secular powers. The devoted victim is regularly
delivered by the priest to the magistrate, and by the magistrate to the executioner; and the
inexorable sentence of the church, which declares the spiritual guilt of the offender, is expressed
in the mild language of pity and intercession.

Chapter XXVII: Civil Wars, Reign Of Theodosius.--Part III.

Among the ecclesiastics, who illustrated the reign of Theodosius, Gregory Nazianzen was distinguished
by the talents of an eloquent preacher; the reputation of miraculous gifts added weight and
dignity to the monastic virtues of Martin of Tours; but the palm of episcopal vigor and ability
was justly claimed by the intrepid Ambrose. He was descended from a noble family of Romans;
his father had exercised the important office of Prætorian præfect of Gaul; and the son, after
passing through the studies of a liberal education, attained, in the regular gradation of civil
honors, the station of consular of Liguria, a province which included the Imperial residence
of Milan. At the age of thirty-four, and before he had received the sacrament of baptism, Ambrose,
to his own surprise, and to that of the world, was suddenly transformed from a governor to
an archbishop. Without the least mixture, as it is said, of art or intrigue, the whole body
of the people unanimously saluted him with the episcopal title; the concord and perseverance
of their acclamations were ascribed to a præternatural impulse; and the reluctant magistrate
was compelled to undertake a spiritual office, for which he was not prepared by the habits
and occupations of his former life. But the active force of his genius soon qualified him to
exercise, with zeal and prudence, the duties of his ecclesiastical jurisdiction; and while
he cheerfully renounced the vain and splendid trappings of temporal greatness, he condescended,
for the good of the church, to direct the conscience of the emperors, and to control the administration
of the empire. Gratian loved and revered him as a father; and the elaborate treatise on the
faith of the Trinity was designed for the instruction of the young prince. After his tragic
death, at a time when the empress Justina trembled for her own safety, and for that of her
son Valentinian, the archbishop of Milan was despatched, on two different embassies, to the
court of Treves. He exercised, with equal firmness and dexterity, the powers of his spiritual
and political characters; and perhaps contributed, by his authority and eloquence, to check
the ambition of Maximus, and to protect the peace of Italy. Ambrose had devoted his life, and
his abilities, to the service of the church. Wealth was the object of his contempt; he had
renounced his private patrimony; and he sold, without hesitation, the consecrated plate, for
the redemption of captives. The clergy and people of Milan were attached to their archbishop;
and he deserved the esteem, without soliciting the favor, or apprehending the displeasure,
of his feeble sovereigns.

The government of Italy, and of the young emperor, naturally devolved to his mother Justina,
a woman of beauty and spirit, but who, in the midst of an orthodox people, had the misfortune
of professing the Arian heresy, which she endeavored to instil into the mind of her son. Justina
was persuaded, that a Roman emperor might claim, in his own dominions, the public exercise
of his religion; and she proposed to the archbishop, as a moderate and reasonable concession,
that he should resign the use of a single church, either in the city or the suburbs of Milan.
But the conduct of Ambrose was governed by very different principles. The palaces of the earth
might indeed belong to Cæsar; but the churches were the houses of God; and, within the limits
of his diocese, he himself, as the lawful successor of the apostles, was the only minister
of God. The privileges of Christianity, temporal as well as spiritual, were confined to the
true believers; and the mind of Ambrose was satisfied, that his own theological opinions were
the standard of truth and orthodoxy. The archbishop, who refused to hold any conference, or
negotiation, with the instruments of Satan, declared, with modest firmness, his resolution
to die a martyr, rather than to yield to the impious sacrilege; and Justina, who resented the
refusal as an act of insolence and rebellion, hastily determined to exert the Imperial prerogative
of her son. As she desired to perform her public devotions on the approaching festival of Easter,
Ambrose was ordered to appear before the council. He obeyed the summons with the respect of
a faithful subject, but he was followed, without his consent, by an innumerable people they
pressed, with impetuous zeal, against the gates of the palace; and the affrighted ministers
of Valentinian, instead of pronouncing a sentence of exile on the archbishop of Milan, humbly
requested that he would interpose his authority, to protect the person of the emperor, and
to restore the tranquility of the capital. But the promises which Ambrose received and communicated
were soon violated by a perfidious court; and, during six of the most solemn days, which Christian
piety had set apart for the exercise of religion, the city was agitated by the irregular convulsions
of tumult and fanaticism. The officers of the household were directed to prepare, first, the
Portian, and afterwards, the new, Basilica, for the immediate reception of the emperor and
his mother. The splendid canopy and hangings of the royal seat were arranged in the customary
manner; but it was found necessary to defend them by a strong guard, from the insults of the
populace. The Arian ecclesiastics, who ventured to show themselves in the streets, were exposed
to the most imminent danger of their lives; and Ambrose enjoyed the merit and reputation of
rescuing his personal enemies from the hands of the enraged multitude.

But while he labored to restrain the effects of their zeal, the pathetic vehemence of his sermons
continually inflamed the angry and seditious temper of the people of Milan. The characters
of Eve, of the wife of Job, of Jezebel, of Herodias, were indecently applied to the mother
of the emperor; and her desire to obtain a church for the Arians was compared to the most cruel
persecutions which Christianity had endured under the reign of Paganism. The measures of the
court served only to expose the magnitude of the evil. A fine of two hundred pounds of gold
was imposed on the corporate body of merchants and manufacturers: an order was signified, in
the name of the emperor, to all the officers, and inferior servants, of the courts of justice,
that, during the continuance of the public disorders, they should strictly confine themselves
to their houses; and the ministers of Valentinian imprudently confessed, that the most respectable
part of the citizens of Milan was attached to the cause of their archbishop. He was again solicited
to restore peace to his country, by timely compliance with the will of his sovereign. The reply
of Ambrose was couched in the most humble and respectful terms, which might, however, be interpreted
as a serious declaration of civil war. "His life and fortune were in the hands of the emperor;
but he would never betray the church of Christ, or degrade the dignity of the episcopal character.
In such a cause he was prepared to suffer whatever the malice of the dæmon could inflict; and
he only wished to die in the presence of his faithful flock, and at the foot of the altar;
he had not contributed to excite, but it was in the power of God alone to appease, the rage
of the people: he deprecated the scenes of blood and confusion which were likely to ensue;
and it was his fervent prayer, that he might not survive to behold the ruin of a flourishing
city, and perhaps the desolation of all Italy." The obstinate bigotry of Justina would have
endangered the empire of her son, if, in this contest with the church and people of Milan,
she could have depended on the active obedience of the troops of the palace. A large body of
Goths had marched to occupy the Basilica, which was the object of the dispute: and it might
be expected from the Arian principles, and barbarous manners, of these foreign mercenaries,
that they would not entertain any scruples in the execution of the most sanguinary orders.
They were encountered, on the sacred threshold, by the archbishop, who, thundering against
them a sentence of excommunication, asked them, in the tone of a father and a master, whether
it was to invade the house of God, that they had implored the hospitable protection of the
republic. The suspense of the Barbarians allowed some hours for a more effectual negotiation;
and the empress was persuaded, by the advice of her wisest counsellors, to leave the Catholics
in possession of all the churches of Milan; and to dissemble, till a more convenient season,
her intentions of revenge. The mother of Valentinian could never forgive the triumph of Ambrose;
and the royal youth uttered a passionate exclamation, that his own servants were ready to betray
him into the hands of an insolent priest.

The laws of the empire, some of which were inscribed with the name of Valentinian, still condemned
the Arian heresy, and seemed to excuse the resistance of the Catholics. By the influence of
Justina, an edict of toleration was promulgated in all the provinces which were subject to
the court of Milan; the free exercise of their religion was granted to those who professed
the faith of Rimini; and the emperor declared, that all persons who should infringe this sacred
and salutary constitution, should be capitally punished, as the enemies of the public peace.
The character and language of the archbishop of Milan may justify the suspicion, that his conduct
soon afforded a reasonable ground, or at least a specious pretence, to the Arian ministers;
who watched the opportunity of surprising him in some act of disobedience to a law which he
strangely represents as a law of blood and tyranny. A sentence of easy and honorable banishment
was pronounced, which enjoined Ambrose to depart from Milan without delay; whilst it permitted
him to choose the place of his exile, and the number of his companions. But the authority of
the saints, who have preached and practised the maxims of passive loyalty, appeared to Ambrose
of less moment than the extreme and pressing danger of the church. He boldly refused to obey;
and his refusal was supported by the unanimous consent of his faithful people. They guarded
by turns the person of their archbishop; the gates of the cathedral and the episcopal palace
were strongly secured; and the Imperial troops, who had formed the blockade, were unwilling
to risk the attack, of that impregnable fortress. The numerous poor, who had been relieved
by the liberality of Ambrose, embraced the fair occasion of signalizing their zeal and gratitude;
and as the patience of the multitude might have been exhausted by the length and uniformity
of nocturnal vigils, he prudently introduced into the church of Milan the useful institution
of a loud and regular psalmody. While he maintained this arduous contest, he was instructed,
by a dream, to open the earth in a place where the remains of two martyrs, Gervasius and Protasius,
had been deposited above three hundred years. Immediately under the pavement of the church
two perfect skeletons were found, with the heads separated from their bodies, and a plentiful
effusion of blood. The holy relics were presented, in solemn pomp, to the veneration of the
people; and every circumstance of this fortunate discovery was admirably adapted to promote
the designs of Ambrose. The bones of the martyrs, their blood, their garments, were supposed
to contain a healing power; and the præternatural influence was communicated to the most distant
objects, without losing any part of its original virtue. The extraordinary cure of a blind
man, and the reluctant confessions of several dæmoniacs, appeared to justify the faith and
sanctity of Ambrose; and the truth of those miracles is attested by Ambrose himself, by his
secretary Paulinus, and by his proselyte, the celebrated Augustin, who, at that time, professed
the art of rhetoric in Milan. The reason of the present age may possibly approve the incredulity
of Justina and her Arian court; who derided the theatrical representations which were exhibited
by the contrivance, and at the expense, of the archbishop. Their effect, however, on the minds
of the people, was rapid and irresistible; and the feeble sovereign of Italy found himself
unable to contend with the favorite of Heaven. The powers likewise of the earth interposed
in the defence of Ambrose: the disinterested advice of Theodosius was the genuine result of
piety and friendship; and the mask of religious zeal concealed the hostile and ambitious designs
of the tyrant of Gaul.

The reign of Maximus might have ended in peace and prosperity, could he have contented himself
with the possession of three ample countries, which now constitute the three most flourishing
kingdoms of modern Europe. But the aspiring usurper, whose sordid ambition was not dignified
by the love of glory and of arms, considered his actual forces as the instruments only of his
future greatness, and his success was the immediate cause of his destruction. The wealth which
he extorted from the oppressed provinces of Gaul, Spain, and Britain, was employed in levying
and maintaining a formidable army of Barbarians, collected, for the most part, from the fiercest
nations of Germany. The conquest of Italy was the object of his hopes and preparations: and
he secretly meditated the ruin of an innocent youth, whose government was abhorred and despised
by his Catholic subjects. But as Maximus wished to occupy, without resistance, the passes of
the Alps, he received, with perfidious smiles, Domninus of Syria, the ambassador of Valentinian,
and pressed him to accept the aid of a considerable body of troops, for the service of a Pannonian
war. The penetration of Ambrose had discovered the snares of an enemy under the professions
of friendship; but the Syrian Domninus was corrupted, or deceived, by the liberal favor of
the court of Treves; and the council of Milan obstinately rejected the suspicion of danger,
with a blind confidence, which was the effect, not of courage, but of fear. The march of the
auxiliaries was guided by the ambassador; and they were admitted, without distrust, into the
fortresses of the Alps. But the crafty tyrant followed, with hasty and silent footsteps, in
the rear; and, as he diligently intercepted all intelligence of his motions, the gleam of armor,
and the dust excited by the troops of cavalry, first announced the hostile approach of a stranger
to the gates of Milan. In this extremity, Justina and her son might accuse their own imprudence,
and the perfidious arts of Maximus; but they wanted time, and force, and resolution, to stand
against the Gauls and Germans, either in the field, or within the walls of a large and disaffected
city. Flight was their only hope, Aquileia their only refuge; and as Maximus now displayed
his genuine character, the brother of Gratian might expect the same fate from the hands of
the same assassin. Maximus entered Milan in triumph; and if the wise archbishop refused a dangerous
and criminal connection with the usurper, he might indirectly contribute to the success of
his arms, by inculcating, from the pulpit, the duty of resignation, rather than that of resistance.
The unfortunate Justina reached Aquileia in safety; but she distrusted the strength of the
fortifications: she dreaded the event of a siege; and she resolved to implore the protection
of the great Theodosius, whose power and virtue were celebrated in all the countries of the
West. A vessel was secretly provided to transport the Imperial family; they embarked with precipitation
in one of the obscure harbors of Venetia, or Istria; traversed the whole extent of the Adriatic
and Ionian Seas; turned the extreme promontory of Peloponnesus; and, after a long, but successful
navigation, reposed themselves in the port of Thessalonica. All the subjects of Valentinian
deserted the cause of a prince, who, by his abdication, had absolved them from the duty of
allegiance; and if the little city of Æmona, on the verge of Italy, had not presumed to stop
the career of his inglorious victory, Maximus would have obtained, without a struggle, the
sole possession of the Western empire.

Instead of inviting his royal guests to take the palace of Constantinople, Theodosius had some
unknown reasons to fix their residence at Thessalonica; but these reasons did not proceed from
contempt or indifference, as he speedily made a visit to that city, accompanied by the greatest
part of his court and senate. After the first tender expressions of friendship and sympathy,
the pious emperor of the East gently admonished Justina, that the guilt of heresy was sometimes
punished in this world, as well as in the next; and that the public profession of the Nicene
faith would be the most efficacious step to promote the restoration of her son, by the satisfaction
which it must occasion both on earth and in heaven. The momentous question of peace or war
was referred, by Theodosius, to the deliberation of his council; and the arguments which might
be alleged on the side of honor and justice, had acquired, since the death of Gratian, a considerable
degree of additional weight. The persecution of the Imperial family, to which Theodosius himself
had been indebted for his fortune, was now aggravated by recent and repeated injuries. Neither
oaths nor treaties could restrain the boundless ambition of Maximus; and the delay of vigorous
and decisive measures, instead of prolonging the blessings of peace, would expose the Eastern
empire to the danger of a hostile invasion. The Barbarians, who had passed the Danube, had
lately assumed the character of soldiers and subjects, but their native fierceness was yet
untamed: and the operations of a war, which would exercise their valor, and diminish their
numbers, might tend to relieve the provinces from an intolerable oppression. Notwithstanding
these specious and solid reasons, which were approved by a majority of the council, Theodosius
still hesitated whether he should draw the sword in a contest which could no longer admit any
terms of reconciliation; and his magnanimous character was not disgraced by the apprehensions
which he felt for the safety of his infant sons, and the welfare of his exhausted people. In
this moment of anxious doubt, while the fate of the Roman world depended on the resolution
of a single man, the charms of the princess Galla most powerfully pleaded the cause of her
brother Valentinian. The heart of Theodosius was softened by the tears of beauty; his affections
were insensibly engaged by the graces of youth and innocence: the art of Justina managed and
directed the impulse of passion; and the celebration of the royal nuptials was the assurance
and signal of the civil war. The unfeeling critics, who consider every amorous weakness as
an indelible stain on the memory of a great and orthodox emperor, are inclined, on this occasion,
to dispute the suspicious evidence of the historian Zosimus. Everything in it looks new. The city
is mostly built in the last past half century, while, for so long about it is that the local
source was known and famous.

Cheltenham is a single, at least a mile long road that there are small side streets and individual
buildings connected to . In this main street with the most beautiful buildings, the splendid shops,
lending libraries and coffee houses, the beautiful world surges during the morning and slowly, like
us, it seemed too boring and down. The two ladies sneak yawning and threes from one shop to another,
while the men, drinking, and the precious time reading newspapers in their own way hinzubringen
looking riding.

The spirit here is so little joy sociable than usual at home in England, it drives everything
seriously, and so the pleasure is to work. If the morning is over, so help balls, assemblies, concerts
and theater, as the series makes just, pass the remaining hours, for all this is provided, albeit under
somewhat tapered scale. During the season, presided over a master of ceremonies from Bath, because
it summer over there has the idle time. From these and other institutions of the English baths, as
well as from the common to all life, we reserve the right to talk further when we used to describe
of Bath, this queen of all English seaside resorts, come. The promenade,
which the fountain of Cheltenham leads to is one of the most beautiful
in England thought, probably it will acquire in this country the great
rarity of a straight, tree lined avenues edged high this glory, for
large, shady elm trees surrounded by here from both sides of a broad,
straight, about nine hundred feet long avenue.

In its middle is the fountain a little cumbersome temples enclosed within, next to a beautiful room
to use the well-guests in bad weather, and in this one book to subscriptions for the maintenance
of the promenade of the room so well-behaved well guest signed Everyone is in it with name and date;
in the contract in case he is a Nobody considered and taken no notice of him, how cheap. At the end of
the promenade is still an ordinary English garden, a pretty, also for the amusement of bathers
particular building here includes the avenue, and at the other end of it is the rather pointed
steeple of the Point de vue. It is a pretty sight when one zwischen acht und zehn clock, the
usual fountain time Badegesellschaft among the ancient trees slowly walk up and down in the morning
sees. The own charm, which English women in her evening clothes surrounds is well known, and here, in this
green twilight, to see the white-clad, nymph stick figures of most of the on's most advantageous.
While holding this avenue with the Pyrmont no comparison of the English
however, are proud of it and think it was the most beautiful in the
world.

While here drinking sake walking up and down, which characterized the early morning parade is called very,
musicians making music a band quickly towards it, well there are like, and according to their God save
the King and Rule Britannia ring can. A strange place is it that is different from the churchyard
to the promenade go can on not, this is indeed quite good, with pretty Linden, but also with many tombstones
occupied by and may well be many to the source of pilgrimage of sick ideas awaken in the weakening
could healing powers which. The water of Cheltenham is against skin damage, scurvy and other
ills mainly used. King George the Third took a few visits by the first source in fashion, but he
got this very badly. He was here an unpleasant, but rooted, perhaps innate Hautübel recover
from, he managed the rash went by, but the good George fell into
the sad state of mind in which he remained until his death.

[Footnote: George III. reigning monarch of the House of Hanover at the time of Joan's residence England
(1738-1820). He had been suffering from frequent attacks of insanity in 1788, lived in a strange twilight
since 1801, the total collapse in 1811 the regency of the Prince of Wales made it necessary
for one.] Finally broke the festive morning, which we called for
Tewkesbury, Cheltenham wandered across with both of us, a long series
of colorful wagons and on horseback.

There, everything was busy moving, everything was put on his Sunday coat, pretty girls white dresses
and yellow Nankingschuhen are in cheerful and happy all around. A band of acrobats and two
itinerant theater companies here had the evening Thalia and Terpsichore temple erected for,
it was still for the night ball and Assemblee. Just think what all of this town of Tewkesbury
had to make noise in, and how the young and the glory of unusual heart at the mere glory of
unusual heart beat faster at the mere thought of it. And to all the brilliant men and women from
Cheltenham, the carriages, fine horses, servants and the rest of the baggage, it was the delight!
Keeping track of how we in time for lunch and home care had happy, for without this provision was
in the crowd to find a shelter difficult.

At twelve clock moved everything, man and horse and cart, out of the race course. A large beautiful
meadow is set up to in a half circle in the city attracts so forth,
and distant blue mountains close around the view.

That in itself is very pretty place, alive with thousands of happy people of every rank, granted a very interesting
spectacle. The acrobats were the countless flags rather colorfully decorated scaffolds on which they
their arts show wanted evening the, on the square built in the middle; this, the Turkish music,
which sounded to the audience to arouse the curiosity, and their light fantastic dancer costume
, in the midst of the crowd she walked around some, partly on their scaffolds were grouped, made the
whole thing even more colorful colorful and lively. The two rival theater companies are striving
to wrest the notes and rank each other. Unwearied they shared in all the world slip from her, in the
carriages flew these announcements by the dozen, and if one had thrown a handful of one stroke to it,
they ran like his rival from the other stroke is also the praise of his company to spread. All was
life and joy, only the bettors seemed earnest and zeal in her face,
the cheerful bustle of the other looking at with contempt.

Finally, the drum sounded, the horses were excellent, there were some famous racer underneath.
The whole thing we liked much better than in Edinburgh and liked us, in fact so good that we,
like most of the rest of society, after dinner, went back for the second race. But now the charm
of novelty was gone, and around us is not the end of a joyous day to bored, we left the ball and assemblies,
trick rider, Othello and his associates in the lurch, waiting for even the decision of a big
fight does not: whether Jenny Spinster quarter minutes rather than Edgar had been on the objectives,
or whether both would arrive at the same time. We wish the good people of Tewkesbury, the Shakespeare
of his masterpieces as excellent Senffabrikanten has immortalized in one, a lot of fun for this
evening and tomorrow, at which they expected the same joys admired,
nor the beautiful Gothic church, one of the largest and most beautiful
in the kingdom, and cheerful courage went to Gloucester.

This city seemed to us when passing fairly significant, with nice houses and wide streets. By the way,
it contained so much we could learn, nothing more attracted our attention. The journey from Bristol
Gloucester to Bristol is one of the most pleasant and the character of the area from that of the rest
of England quite different. It is varied, the south. Green is no longer quite the prädominierende
color, although even here the vegetation is in the highest glory. Nicer, bigger trees than anywhere,
crowded groups, many large plantations of fruit trees, with walls
instead of the usual hedges trimmed in, they are distinguished from
all other UK into.

There glows the Goldpepping [Footnote: Goldreinette, apples], the pride of England, bright green foliage
and sighs in the autumn in the press in order to later as Cider Footnote: [cider, cider] the
hearts of the middle class, who can not pay the expensive wines to
enjoy the Portuguese and the French between.

This pear matures on tall stately trees and provides the Perry [Footnote: perry, cider], under
mask bubbling champagne from the wine merchants expensive sold will be often. The beautiful
stream Avon revived the beautiful area, ships float smaller on its silver surface . Close to Bristol,
he is deep enough to vessels of from forty to fifty guns to bear large, eight miles farther
on, in one of the most charming areas, it falls into the Severn Sea, actually a bay that here the
land is deep . Bristol's environments are unquestionably the finest in England, because everything
is combined here: the sea, a navigable stream, and hill and valley, field and forest in the
highest wealth in the hard work and wise an excellent soil can only
grant.

The city seemed to us greater than Edinburgh. Streets and squares are broad, well-paved, full of busy
life, surrounded with beautiful private homes as well as public buildings and churches, among
which the cathedral and the St. Mary Redcliffe as a venerable Gothic
buildings are characterized by.

The theater is large, comfortable and elegant, also in front with
Corinthian columns, ornate buildings, into which, under the supervision
of a master of ceremonies, the Assemblies and balls at the local swimming
time rather than have the so.

You Bristol compares with Rome, for, as that queen of cities, it sits well on seven hills, and
give some of it from their peaks a very nice view in the country around. The roads leading up, but
they are mostly very steep. In addition to the Avon navigable streams also a small river that Frome
through the town, pretty stone bridges over both waters. The quay at the port is magnificent, a
masterpiece of its kind, but we turned shuddering from the sight of him, for here was the place from
which the inhuman greed ships fitted out from the slave trade, the
enriched population of Bristol.

Blood and groans of millions of people glued to those stones. By this thoughtful, it was impossible
for us to cheer the beautiful docks to admire gay, which here as in Liverpool, ships from all over the
world safely and comfortably accommodate. One of the best games at Bristol granted King's Weston,
the country estate of Lord Clifford. The facade of the house is large and handsome, if somewhat
cumbersome and overloaded with ornaments, but we want a closer look the same does not hold, even
the beautiful plants we went through only briefly, so powerful nature
moves here from the around the simple, to adorn the art tried.

King's Weston is on a serious hill. Looking down from above, so they offer from one side of the eye, enchanting
valley is one equipped with all the wealth of culture, England, one of the most beautiful countries
in Europe to make some, and lovely hills , all the splendor of the most luxuriant vegetation adorned with,
divorce that charming part of the world from the rest of the world. From the other side of the
hill from King's Weston sees the mighty Avon is here hinwinden majestically through a valley similar
to that paradise. Ships from all over the world dancing around, gondolas and small boats Schiffer,
float by on his silver flashing surface.

Here the view long espoused the course of the river, it looks more and more powerful, wide will
always see how the rocks to the sides always picturesque, romantic forms always take, like, all in
the blue distance, the sea view and the last at the same time reaches of the beautiful stream limited
by him in his lap and takes forever united with. Long time we were lost in this enchanting spectacle,
and finally we made our way through the ancient trees of the park occupied by Lord Clifford to an even higher
hill, called Penpole Point.

Once again we enjoyed this same view, but from a different point of view and even richer, more
extensive, yet delightful. A very pleasant trail leads from there to Clifton. Clifton is
called a village, but it is a village, we would like to say, consisting of palaces. It is scattered,
some in the valley and partly on the sunny side of a hill. The beautiful large houses are now so popular
in England in the form of a half moon, some in long rows on terraces, sometimes alone, or they form
broad streets and beautiful, regular courses. All this is by gardens, fields, steep, rocky and rolling hills
to the most charming multiplies wild. Some of these buildings are always, or even through the
summer of rich for considered families inhabited, the greater part of it is set up for use of the
bathers, the year comes from a large number, in the hope of salvation and rescue in the warm source to find
which flows not far from Clifton.

Unfortunately, often in vain, for this source is usually a last resort against the saddest of all
the evils that threaten our short life, against tuberculosis and emaciation applied. Nowhere
more frequently than in England rage these diseases, the most recent and most amiable victim is always
chosen , they embellish and glorify and by destroying them. Says Rose blooms by the worm stung so
often before, and on to beautiful. It is a heartbreaking sight, the young, ethereal figures of breath,
already half the inhabitants of another world, areas on the green lawn hinwanken to see Elysian in these
and then take a look at the nearby cemetery, the resting place of their predecessors, to throw
at the latter tombstones, the figures of twenty and twenty-five years of almost uninterrupted series
of sad to read are long in one. Hotwells A very steep path leads down the mountain after Hotwells,
where the source is flowing and many homes built for swimmers are fine, too. Near the banks of the
Avon she rushes out powerful, one of the cliffs, the majestic rows from both sides along the bed
of the stream in drag. A beautiful building is built on the source. First, we enter a vestibule,
the drinking and for rest and conversation serves, and behind this lies the fountain room. A pretty girl
personified here to the upward and gives the bad taste not like champagne petillierende, lukewarm
water. When it is first drawn, it looks a bit dull and whitish from, but it is quite clear,
and it cools.

The houses of the criminals were exposed to sale, their wives and children were suddenly reduced,
from affluence and luxury, to the most abject distress; and a bloody execution was expected
to conclude the horrors of the day, which the preacher of Antioch, the eloquent Chrysostom,
has represented as a lively image of the last and universal judgment of the world. But the
ministers of Theodosius performed, with reluctance, the cruel task which had been assigned
them; they dropped a gentle tear over the calamities of the people; and they listened with
reverence to the pressing solicitations of the monks and hermits, who descended in swarms from
the mountains. Hellebicus and Cæsarius were persuaded to suspend the execution of their sentence;
and it was agreed that the former should remain at Antioch, while the latter returned, with
all possible speed, to Constantinople; and presumed once more to consult the will of his sovereign.
The resentment of Theodosius had already subsided; the deputies of the people, both the bishop
and the orator, had obtained a favorable audience; and the reproaches of the emperor were the
complaints of injured friendship, rather than the stern menaces of pride and power. A free
and general pardon was granted to the city and citizens of Antioch; the prison doors were thrown
open; the senators, who despaired of their lives, recovered the possession of their houses
and estates; and the capital of the East was restored to the enjoyment of her ancient dignity
and splendor. Theodosius condescended to praise the senate of Constantinople, who had generously
interceded for their distressed brethren: he rewarded the eloquence of Hilarius with the government
of Palestine; and dismissed the bishop of Antioch with the warmest expressions of his respect
and gratitude. A thousand new statues arose to the clemency of Theodosius; the applause of
his subjects was ratified by the approbation of his own heart; and the emperor confessed, that,
if the exercise of justice is the most important duty, the indulgence of mercy is the most
exquisite pleasure, of a sovereign.

The sedition of Thessalonica is ascribed to a more shameful cause, and was productive of much
more dreadful consequences. That great city, the metropolis of all the Illyrian provinces,
had been protected from the dangers of the Gothic war by strong fortifications and a numerous
garrison. Botheric, the general of those troops, and, as it should seem from his name, a Barbarian,
had among his slaves a beautiful boy, who excited the impure desires of one of the charioteers
of the Circus. The insolent and brutal lover was thrown into prison by the order of Botheric;
and he sternly rejected the importunate clamors of the multitude, who, on the day of the public
games, lamented the absence of their favorite; and considered the skill of a charioteer as
an object of more importance than his virtue. The resentment of the people was imbittered by
some previous disputes; and, as the strength of the garrison had been drawn away for the service
of the Italian war, the feeble remnant, whose numbers were reduced by desertion, could not
save the unhappy general from their licentious fury. Botheric, and several of his principal
officers, were inhumanly murdered; their mangled bodies were dragged about the streets; and
the emperor, who then resided at Milan, was surprised by the intelligence of the audacious
and wanton cruelty of the people of Thessalonica. The sentence of a dispassionate judge would
have inflicted a severe punishment on the authors of the crime; and the merit of Botheric might
contribute to exasperate the grief and indignation of his master. The fiery and choleric temper
of Theodosius was impatient of the dilatory forms of a judicial inquiry; and he hastily resolved,
that the blood of his lieutenant should be expiated by the blood of the guilty people. Yet
his mind still fluctuated between the counsels of clemency and of revenge; the zeal of the
bishops had almost extorted from the reluctant emperor the promise of a general pardon; his
passion was again inflamed by the flattering suggestions of his minister Rufinus; and, after
Theodosius had despatched the messengers of death, he attempted, when it was too late, to prevent
the execution of his orders. The punishment of a Roman city was blindly committed to the undistinguishing
sword of the Barbarians; and the hostile preparations were concerted with the dark and perfidious
artifice of an illegal conspiracy. The people of Thessalonica were treacherously invited, in
the name of their sovereign, to the games of the Circus; and such was their insatiate avidity
for those amusements, that every consideration of fear, or suspicion, was disregarded by the
numerous spectators. As soon as the assembly was complete, the soldiers, who had secretly been
posted round the Circus, received the signal, not of the races, but of a general massacre.
The promiscuous carnage continued three hours, without discrimination of strangers or natives,
of age or sex, of innocence or guilt; the most moderate accounts state the number of the slain
at seven thousand; and it is affirmed by some writers that more than fifteen thousand victims
were sacrificed to the names of Botheric. A foreign merchant, who had probably no concern in
his murder, offered his own life, and all his wealth, to supply the place of one of his two
sons; but, while the father hesitated with equal tenderness, while he was doubtful to choose,
and unwilling to condemn, the soldiers determined his suspense, by plunging their daggers at
the same moment into the breasts of the defenceless youths. The apology of the assassins, that
they were obliged to produce the prescribed number of heads, serves only to increase, by an
appearance of order and design, the horrors of the massacre, which was executed by the commands
of Theodosius. The guilt of the emperor is aggravated by his long and frequent residence at
Thessalonica. The situation of the unfortunate city, the aspect of the streets and buildings,
the dress and faces of the inhabitants, were familiar, and even present, to his imagination;
and Theodosius possessed a quick and lively sense of the existence of the people whom he destroyed.

The respectful attachment of the emperor for the orthodox clergy, had disposed him to love
and admire the character of Ambrose; who united all the episcopal virtues in the most eminent
degree. The friends and ministers of Theodosius imitated the example of their sovereign; and
he observed, with more surprise than displeasure, that all his secret counsels were immediately
communicated to the archbishop; who acted from the laudable persuasion, that every measure
of civil government may have some connection with the glory of God, and the interest of the
true religion. The monks and populace of Callinicum, an obscure town on the frontier of Persia,
excited by their own fanaticism, and by that of their bishop, had tumultuously burnt a conventicle
of the Valentinians, and a synagogue of the Jews. The seditious prelate was condemned, by the
magistrate of the province, either to rebuild the synagogue, or to repay the damage; and this
moderate sentence was confirmed by the emperor. But it was not confirmed by the archbishop
of Milan. He dictated an epistle of censure and reproach, more suitable, perhaps, if the emperor
had received the mark of circumcision, and renounced the faith of his baptism. Ambrose considers
the toleration of the Jewish, as the persecution of the Christian, religion; boldly declares
that he himself, and every true believer, would eagerly dispute with the bishop of Callinicum
the merit of the deed, and the crown of martyrdom; and laments, in the most pathetic terms,
that the execution of the sentence would be fatal to the fame and salvation of Theodosius.
As this private admonition did not produce an immediate effect, the archbishop, from his pulpit,
publicly addressed the emperor on his throne; nor would he consent to offer the oblation of
the altar, till he had obtained from Theodosius a solemn and positive declaration, which secured
the impunity of the bishop and monks of Callinicum. The recantation of Theodosius was sincere;
and, during the term of his residence at Milan, his affection for Ambrose was continually increased
by the habits of pious and familiar conversation.

When Ambrose was informed of the massacre of Thessalonica, his mind was filled with horror
and anguish. He retired into the country to indulge his grief, and to avoid the presence of
Theodosius. But as the archbishop was satisfied that a timid silence would render him the accomplice
of his guilt, he represented, in a private letter, the enormity of the crime; which could only
be effaced by the tears of penitence. The episcopal vigor of Ambrose was tempered by prudence;
and he contented himself with signifying an indirect sort of excommunication, by the assurance,
that he had been warned in a vision not to offer the oblation in the name, or in the presence,
of Theodosius; and by the advice, that he would confine himself to the use of prayer, without
presuming to approach the altar of Christ, or to receive the holy eucharist with those hands
that were still polluted with the blood of an innocent people. The emperor was deeply affected
by his own reproaches, and by those of his spiritual father; and after he had bewailed the
mischievous and irreparable consequences of his rash fury, he proceeded, in the accustomed
manner, to perform his devotions in the great church of Milan. He was stopped in the porch
by the archbishop; who, in the tone and language of an ambassador of Heaven, declared to his
sovereign, that private contrition was not sufficient to atone for a public fault, or to appease
the justice of the offended Deity. Theodosius humbly represented, that if he had contracted
the guilt of homicide, David, the man after God's own heart, had been guilty, not only of murder,
but of adultery. "You have imitated David in his crime, imitate then his repentance," was the
reply of the undaunted Ambrose. The rigorous conditions of peace and pardon were accepted;
and the public penance of the emperor Theodosius has been recorded as one of the most honorable
events in the annals of the church. According to the mildest rules of ecclesiastical discipline,
which were established in the fourth century, the crime of homicide was expiated by the penitence
of twenty years: and as it was impossible, in the period of human life, to purge the accumulated
guilt of the massacre of Thessalonica, the murderer should have been excluded from the holy
communion till the hour of his death. But the archbishop, consulting the maxims of religious
policy, granted some indulgence to the rank of his illustrious penitent, who humbled in the
dust the pride of the diadem; and the public edification might be admitted as a weighty reason
to abridge the duration of his punishment. It was sufficient, that the emperor of the Romans,
stripped of the ensigns of royalty, should appear in a mournful and suppliant posture; and
that, in the midst of the church of Milan, he should humbly solicit, with sighs and tears,
the pardon of his sins. In this spiritual cure, Ambrose employed the various methods of mildness
and severity. After a delay of about eight months, Theodosius was restored to the communion
of the faithful; and the edict which interposes a salutary interval of thirty days between
the sentence and the execution, may be accepted as the worthy fruits of his repentance. Posterity
has applauded the virtuous firmness of the archbishop; and the example of Theodosius may prove
the beneficial influence of those principles, which could force a monarch, exalted above the
apprehension of human punishment, to respect the laws, and ministers, of an invisible Judge.
"The prince," says Montesquieu, "who is actuated by the hopes and fears of religion, may be
compared to a lion, docile only to the voice, and tractable to the hand, of his keeper." The
motions of the royal animal will therefore depend on the inclination, and interest, of the
man who has acquired such dangerous authority over him; and the priest, who holds in his hands
the conscience of a king, may inflame, or moderate, his sanguinary passions. The cause of humanity,
and that of persecution, have been asserted, by the same Ambrose, with equal energy, and with
equal success.

Chapter XXVII: Civil Wars, Reign Of Theodosius.--Part V.

After the defeat and death of the tyrant of Gaul, the Roman world was in the possession of
Theodosius. He derived from the choice of Gratian his honorable title to the provinces of the
East: he had acquired the West by the right of conquest; and the three years which he spent
in Italy were usefully employed to restore the authority of the laws, and to correct the abuses
which had prevailed with impunity under the usurpation of Maximus, and the minority of Valentinian.
The name of Valentinian was regularly inserted in the public acts: but the tender age, and
doubtful faith, of the son of Justina, appeared to require the prudent care of an orthodox
guardian; and his specious ambition might have excluded the unfortunate youth, without a struggle,
and almost without a murmur, from the administration, and even from the inheritance, of the
empire. If Theodosius had consulted the rigid maxims of interest and policy, his conduct would
have been justified by his friends; but the generosity of his behavior on this memorable occasion
has extorted the applause of his most inveterate enemies. He seated Valentinian on the throne
of Milan; and, without stipulating any present or future advantages, restored him to the absolute
dominion of all the provinces, from which he had been driven by the arms of Maximus. To the
restitution of his ample patrimony, Theodosius added the free and generous gift of the countries
beyond the Alps, which his successful valor had recovered from the assassin of Gratian. Satisfied
with the glory which he had acquired, by revenging the death of his benefactor, and delivering
the West from the yoke of tyranny, the emperor returned from Milan to Constantinople; and,
in the peaceful possession of the East, insensibly relapsed into his former habits of luxury
and indolence. Theodosius discharged his obligation to the brother, he indulged his conjugal
tenderness to the sister, of Valentinian; and posterity, which admires the pure and singular
glory of his elevation, must applaud his unrivalled generosity in the use of victory.

The empress Justina did not long survive her return to Italy; and, though she beheld the triumph
of Theodosius, she was not allowed to influence the government of her son. The pernicious attachment
to the Arian sect, which Valentinian had imbibed from her example and instructions, was soon
erased by the lessons of a more orthodox education. His growing zeal for the faith of Nice,
and his filial reverence for the character and authority of Ambrose, disposed the Catholics
to entertain the most favorable opinion of the virtues of the young emperor of the West. They
applauded his chastity and temperance, his contempt of pleasure, his application to business,
and his tender affection for his two sisters; which could not, however, seduce his impartial
equity to pronounce an unjust sentence against the meanest of his subjects. But this amiable
youth, before he had accomplished the twentieth year of his age, was oppressed by domestic
treason; and the empire was again involved in the horrors of a civil war. Arbogastes, a gallant
soldier of the nation of the Franks, held the second rank in the service of Gratian. On the
death of his master he joined the standard of Theodosius; contributed, by his valor and military
conduct, to the destruction of the tyrant; and was appointed, after the victory, master-general
of the armies of Gaul. His real merit, and apparent fidelity, had gained the confidence both
of the prince and people; his boundless liberality corrupted the allegiance of the troops;
and, whilst he was universally esteemed as the pillar of the state, the bold and crafty Barbarian
was secretly determined either to rule, or to ruin, the empire of the West. The important commands
of the army were distributed among the Franks; the creatures of Arbogastes were promoted to
all the honors and offices of the civil government; the progress of the conspiracy removed
every faithful servant from the presence of Valentinian; and the emperor, without power and
without intelligence, insensibly sunk into the precarious and dependent condition of a captive.
The indignation which he expressed, though it might arise only from the rash and impatient
temper of youth, may be candidly ascribed to the generous spirit of a prince, who felt that
he was not unworthy to reign. He secretly invited the archbishop of Milan to undertake the
office of a mediator; as the pledge of his sincerity, and the guardian of his safety. He contrived
to apprise the emperor of the East of his helpless situation, and he declared, that, unless
Theodosius could speedily march to his assistance, he must attempt to escape from the palace,
or rather prison, of Vienna in Gaul, where he had imprudently fixed his residence in the midst
of the hostile faction. But the hopes of relief were distant, and doubtful: and, as every day
furnished some new provocation, the emperor, without strength or counsel, too hastily resolved
to risk an immediate contest with his powerful general. He received Arbogastes on the throne;
and, as the count approached with some appearance of respect, delivered to him a paper, which
dismissed him from all his employments. "My authority," replied Arbogastes, with insulting
coolness, "does not depend on the smile or the frown of a monarch;" and he contemptuously threw
the paper on the ground. The indignant monarch snatched at the sword of one of the guards,
which he struggled to draw from its scabbard; and it was not without some degree of violence
that he was prevented from using the deadly weapon against his enemy, or against himself. A
few days after this extraordinary quarrel, in which he had exposed his resentment and his weakness,
the unfortunate Valentinian was found strangled in his apartment; and some pains were employed
to disguise the manifest guilt of Arbogastes, and to persuade the world, that the death of
the young emperor had been the voluntary effect of his own despair. His body was conducted
with decent pomp to the sepulchre of Milan; and the archbishop pronounced a funeral oration
to commemorate his virtues and his misfortunes. On this occasion the humanity of Ambrose tempted
him to make a singular breach in his theological system; and to comfort the weeping sisters
of Valentinian, by the firm assurance, that their pious brother, though he had not received
the sacrament of baptism, was introduced, without difficulty, into the mansions of eternal bliss.

The prudence of Arbogastes had prepared the success of his ambitious designs: and the provincials,
in whose breast every sentiment of patriotism or loyalty was extinguished, expected, with tame
resignation, the unknown master, whom the choice of a Frank might place on the Imperial throne.
But some remains of pride and prejudice still opposed the elevation of Arbogastes himself;
and the judicious Barbarian thought it more advisable to reign under the name of some dependent
Roman. He bestowed the purple on the rhetorician Eugenius; whom he had already raised from
the place of his domestic secretary to the rank of master of the offices. In the course, both
of his private and public service, the count had always approved the attachment and abilities
of Eugenius; his learning and eloquence, supported by the gravity of his manners, recommended
him to the esteem of the people; and the reluctance with which he seemed to ascend the throne,
may inspire a favorable prejudice of his virtue and moderation. The ambassadors of the new
emperor were immediately despatched to the court of Theodosius, to communicate, with affected
grief, the unfortunate accident of the death of Valentinian; and, without mentioning the name
of Arbogastes, to request, that the monarch of the East would embrace, as his lawful colleague,
the respectable citizen, who had obtained the unanimous suffrage of the armies and provinces
of the West. Theodosius was justly provoked, that the perfidy of a Barbarian, should have destroyed,
in a moment, the labors, and the fruit, of his former victory; and he was excited by the tears
of his beloved wife, to revenge the fate of her unhappy brother, and once more to assert by
arms the violated majesty of the throne. But as the second conquest of the West was a task
of difficulty and danger, he dismissed, with splendid presents, and an ambiguous answer, the
ambassadors of Eugenius; and almost two years were consumed in the preparations of the civil
war. Before he formed any decisive resolution, the pious emperor was anxious to discover the
will of Heaven; and as the progress of Christianity had silenced the oracles of Delphi and
Dodona, he consulted an Egyptian monk, who possessed, in the opinion of the age, the gift of
miracles, and the knowledge of futurity. Eutropius, one of the favorite eunuchs of the palace
of Constantinople, embarked for Alexandria, from whence he sailed up the Nile, as far as the
city of Lycopolis, or of Wolves, in the remote province of Thebais. In the neighborhood of
that city, and on the summit of a lofty mountain, the holy John had constructed, with his own
hands, an humble cell, in which he had dwelt above fifty years, without opening his door, without
seeing the face of a woman, and without tasting any food that had been prepared by fire, or
any human art. Five days of the week he spent in prayer and meditation; but on Saturdays and
Sundays he regularly opened a small window, and gave audience to the crowd of suppliants who
successively flowed from every part of the Christian world. The eunuch of Theodosius approached
the window with respectful steps, proposed his questions concerning the event of the civil
war, and soon returned with a favorable oracle, which animated the courage of the emperor by
the assurance of a bloody, but infallible victory. The accomplishment of the prediction was
forwarded by all the means that human prudence could supply. The industry of the two master-generals,
Stilicho and Timasius, was directed to recruit the numbers, and to revive the discipline of
the Roman legions. The formidable troops of Barbarians marched under the ensigns of their national
chieftains. The Iberian, the Arab, and the Goth, who gazed on each other with mutual astonishment,
were enlisted in the service of the same prince; and the renowned Alaric acquired, in the school
of Theodosius, the knowledge of the art of war, which he afterwards so fatally exerted for
the destruction of Rome.

The emperor of the West, or, to speak more properly, his general Arbogastes, was instructed
by the misconduct and misfortune of Maximus, how dangerous it might prove to extend the line
of defence against a skilful antagonist, who was free to press, or to suspend, to contract,
or to multiply, his various methods of attack. Arbogastes fixed his station on the confines
of Italy; the troops of Theodosius were permitted to occupy, without resistance, the provinces
of Pannonia, as far as the foot of the Julian Alps; and even the passes of the mountains were
negligently, or perhaps artfully, abandoned to the bold invader. He descended from the hills,
and beheld, with some astonishment, the formidable camp of the Gauls and Germans, that covered
with arms and tents the open country which extends to the walls of Aquileia, and the banks
of the Frigidus, or Cold River. This narrow theatre of the war, circumscribed by the Alps and
the Adriatic, did not allow much room for the operations of military skill; the spirit of Arbogastes
would have disdained a pardon; his guilt extinguished the hope of a negotiation; and Theodosius
was impatient to satisfy his glory and revenge, by the chastisement of the assassins of Valentinian.
Without weighing the natural and artificial obstacles that opposed his efforts, the emperor
of the East immediately attacked the fortifications of his rivals, assigned the post of honorable
danger to the Goths, and cherished a secret wish, that the bloody conflict might diminish the
pride and numbers of the conquerors. Ten thousand of those auxiliaries, and Bacurius, general
of the Iberians, died bravely on the field of battle. But the victory was not purchased by
their blood; the Gauls maintained their advantage; and the approach of night protected the
disorderly flight, or retreat, of the troops of Theodosius. The emperor retired to the adjacent
hills; where he passed a disconsolate night, without sleep, without provisions, and without
hopes; except that strong assurance, which, under the most desperate circumstances, the independent
mind may derive from the contempt of fortune and of life. The triumph of Eugenius was celebrated
by the insolent and dissolute joy of his camp; whilst the active and vigilant Arbogastes secretly
detached a considerable body of troops to occupy the passes of the mountains, and to encompass
the rear of the Eastern army. The dawn of day discovered to the eyes of Theodosius the extent
and the extremity of his danger; but his apprehensions were soon dispelled, by a friendly message
from the leaders of those troops who expressed their inclination to desert the standard of
the tyrant. The honorable and lucrative rewards, which they stipulated as the price of their
perfidy, were granted without hesitation; and as ink and paper could not easily be procured,
the emperor subscribed, on his own tablets, the ratification of the treaty. The spirit of his
soldiers was revived by this seasonable reenforcement; and they again marched, with confidence,
to surprise the camp of a tyrant, whose principal officers appeared to distrust, either the
justice or the success of his arms. In the heat of the battle, a violent tempest, such as is
often felt among the Alps, suddenly arose from the East. The army of Theodosius was sheltered
by their position from the impetuosity of the wind, which blew a cloud of dust in the faces
of the enemy, disordered their ranks, wrested their weapons from their hands, and diverted,
or repelled, their ineffectual javelins. This accidental advantage was skilfully improved,
the violence of the storm was magnified by the superstitious terrors of the Gauls; and they
yielded without shame to the invisible powers of heaven, who seemed to militate on the side
of the pious emperor. His victory was decisive; and the deaths of his two rivals were distinguished
only by the difference of their characters. The rhetorician Eugenius, who had almost acquired
the dominion of the world, was reduced to implore the mercy of the conqueror; and the unrelenting
soldiers separated his head from his body as he lay prostrate at the feet of Theodosius. Arbogastes,
after the loss of a battle, in which he had discharged the duties of a soldier and a general,
wandered several days among the mountains. But when he was convinced that his cause was desperate,
and his escape impracticable, the intrepid Barbarian imitated the example of the ancient Romans,
and turned his sword against his own breast. The fate of the empire was determined in a narrow
corner of Italy; and the legitimate successor of the house of Valentinian embraced the archbishop
of Milan, and graciously received the submission of the provinces of the West. Those provinces
were involved in the guilt of rebellion; while the inflexible courage of Ambrose alone had
resisted the claims of successful usurpation. With a manly freedom, which might have been fatal
to any other subject, the archbishop rejected the gifts of Eugenius, declined his correspondence,
and withdrew himself from Milan, to avoid the odious presence of a tyrant, whose downfall he
predicted in discreet and ambiguous language. The merit of Ambrose was applauded by the conqueror,
who secured the attachment of the people by his alliance with the church; and the clemency
of Theodosius is ascribed to the humane intercession of the archbishop of Milan.

After the defeat of Eugenius, the merit, as well as the authority, of Theodosius was cheerfully
acknowledged by all the inhabitants of the Roman world. The experience of his past conduct
encouraged the most pleasing expectations of his future reign; and the age of the emperor,
which did not exceed fifty years, seemed to extend the prospect of the public felicity. His
death, only four months after his victory, was considered by the people as an unforeseen and
fatal event, which destroyed, in a moment, the hopes of the rising generation. But the indulgence
of ease and luxury had secretly nourished the principles of disease. The strength of Theodosius
was unable to support the sudden and violent transition from the palace to the camp; and the
increasing symptoms of a dropsy announced the speedy dissolution of the emperor. The opinion,
and perhaps the interest, of the public had confirmed the division of the Eastern and Western
empires; and the two royal youths, Arcadius and Honorius, who had already obtained, from the
tenderness of their father, the title of Augustus, were destined to fill the thrones of Constantinople
and of Rome. Those princes were not permitted to share the danger and glory of the civil war;
but as soon as Theodosius had triumphed over his unworthy rivals, he called his younger son,
Honorius, to enjoy the fruits of the victory, and to receive the sceptre of the West from the
hands of his dying father. The arrival of Honorius at Milan was welcomed by a splendid exhibition
of the games of the Circus; and the emperor, though he was oppressed by the weight of his disorder,
contributed by his presence to the public joy. But the remains of his strength were exhausted
by the painful effort which he made to assist at the spectacles of the morning. Honorius supplied,
during the rest of the day, the place of his father; and the great Theodosius expired in the
ensuing night. Notwithstanding the recent animosities of a civil war, his death was universally
lamented. The Barbarians, whom he had vanquished and the churchmen, by whom he had been subdued,
celebrated, with loud and sincere applause, the qualities of the deceased emperor, which appeared
the most valuable in their eyes. The Romans were terrified by the impending dangers of a feeble
and divided administration, and every disgraceful moment of the unfortunate reigns of Arcadius
and Honorius revived the memory of their irreparable loss.

In the faithful picture of the virtues of Theodosius, his imperfections have not been dissembled;
the act of cruelty, and the habits of indolence, which tarnished the glory of one of the greatest
of the Roman princes. An historian, perpetually adverse to the fame of Theodosius, has exaggerated
his vices, and their pernicious effects; he boldly asserts, that every rank of subjects imitated
the effeminate manners of their sovereign; and that every species of corruption polluted the
course of public and private life; and that the feeble restraints of order and decency were
insufficient to resist the progress of that degenerate spirit, which sacrifices, without a
blush, the consideration of duty and interest to the base indulgence of sloth and appetite.
The complaints of contemporary writers, who deplore the increase of luxury, and depravation
of manners, are commonly expressive of their peculiar temper and situation. There are few observers,
who possess a clear and comprehensive view of the revolutions of society; and who are capable
of discovering the nice and secret springs of action, which impel, in the same uniform direction,
the blind and capricious passions of a multitude of individuals. If it can be affirmed, with
any degree of truth, that the luxury of the Romans was more shameless and dissolute in the
reign of Theodosius than in the age of Constantine, perhaps, or of Augustus, the alteration
cannot be ascribed to any beneficial improvements, which had gradually increased the stock
of national riches. A long period of calamity or decay must have checked the industry, and
diminished the wealth, of the people; and their profuse luxury must have been the result of
that indolent despair, which enjoys the present hour, and declines the thoughts of futurity.
The uncertain condition of their property discouraged the subjects of Theodosius from engaging
in those useful and laborious undertakings which require an immediate expense, and promise
a slow and distant advantage. The frequent examples of ruin and desolation tempted them not
to spare the remains of a patrimony, which might, every hour, become the prey of the rapacious
Goth. And the mad prodigality which prevails in the confusion of a shipwreck, or a siege, may
serve to explain the progress of luxury amidst the misfortunes and terrors of a sinking nation.

The effeminate luxury, which infected the manners of courts and cities, had instilled a secret
and destructive poison into the camps of the legions; and their degeneracy has been marked
by the pen of a military writer, who had accurately studied the genuine and ancient principles
of Roman discipline. It is the just and important observation of Vegetius, that the infantry
was invariably covered with defensive armor, from the foundation of the city, to the reign
of the emperor Gratian. The relaxation of discipline, and the disuse of exercise, rendered
the soldiers less able, and less willing, to support the fatigues of the service; they complained
of the weight of the armor, which they seldom wore; and they successively obtained the permission
of laying aside both their cuirasses and their helmets. The heavy weapons of their ancestors,
the short sword, and the formidable pilum, which had subdued the world, insensibly dropped
from their feeble hands. As the use of the shield is incompatible with that of the bow, they
reluctantly marched into the field; condemned to suffer either the pain of wounds, or the ignominy
of flight, and always disposed to prefer the more shameful alternative. The cavalry of the
Goths, the Huns, and the Alani, had felt the benefits, and adopted the use, of defensive armor;
and, as they excelled in the management of missile weapons, they easily overwhelmed the naked
and trembling legions, whose heads and breasts were exposed, without defence, to the arrows
of the Barbarians. The loss of armies, the destruction of cities, and the dishonor of the Roman
name, ineffectually solicited the successors of Gratian to restore the helmets and the cuirasses
of the infantry. The enervated soldiers abandoned their own and the public defence; and their
pusillanimous indolence may be considered as the immediate cause of the downfall of the empire.

Chapter XXVIII: Destruction Of Paganism.--Part I.

     Final Destruction Of Paganism.--Introduction Of The
     Worship Of Saints, And Relics, Among The Christians.

The ruin of Paganism, in the age of Theodosius, is perhaps the only example of the total extirpation
of any ancient and popular superstition; and may therefore deserve to be considered as a singular
event in the history of the human mind. The Christians, more especially the clergy, had impatiently
supported the prudent delays of Constantine, and the equal toleration of the elder Valentinian;
nor could they deem their conquest perfect or secure, as long as their adversaries were permitted
to exist. The influence which Ambrose and his brethren had acquired over the youth of Gratian,
and the piety of Theodosius, was employed to infuse the maxims of persecution into the breasts
of their Imperial proselytes. Two specious principles of religious jurisprudence were established,
from whence they deduced a direct and rigorous conclusion, against the subjects of the empire
who still adhered to the ceremonies of their ancestors: that the magistrate is, in some measure,
guilty of the crimes which he neglects to prohibit, or to punish; and, that the idolatrous
worship of fabulous deities, and real dæmons, is the most abominable crime against the supreme
majesty of the Creator. The laws of Moses, and the examples of Jewish history, were hastily,
perhaps erroneously, applied, by the clergy, to the mild and universal reign of Christianity.
The zeal of the emperors was excited to vindicate their own honor, and that of the Deity: and
the temples of the Roman world were subverted, about sixty years after the conversion of Constantine.

From the age of Numa to the reign of Gratian, the Romans preserved the regular succession of
the several colleges of the sacerdotal order. Fifteen Pontiffs exercised their supreme jurisdiction
over all things, and persons, that were consecrated to the service of the gods; and the various
questions which perpetually arose in a loose and traditionary system, were submitted to the
judgment of their holy tribunal Fifteen grave and learned Augurs observed the face of the heavens,
and prescribed the actions of heroes, according to the flight of birds. Fifteen keepers of
the Sibylline books (their name of Quindecemvirs was derived from their number) occasionally
consulted the history of future, and, as it should seem, of contingent, events. Six Vestals
devoted their virginity to the guard of the sacred fire, and of the unknown pledges of the
duration of Rome; which no mortal had been suffered to behold with impunity. Seven Epulos prepared
the table of the gods, conducted the solemn procession, and regulated the ceremonies of the
annual festival. "Now I go to the office and the men will say my opinion. It is not a passenger
anymore, one must take into account no. " This heater was varied and repeated the steps with one foot Seitwärtsstoßen
of the way cruising crush in the rat, but only pushed her quickly into the hole, which had yet
reached them in time. He was slow in his movements at all, because if he had long legs, they were too heavy.
They passed through a section of the kitchen, where some girls in
dirty aprons - they watered it - dishes cleaned in large vats on purpose.

The
fireman said a certain line to himself, put his arm around her waist and led her to flirt constantly
pressed against his arm to pieces with one. "There are now paid out, will you come?" He asked. "Why
should I endeavors twine me, bring me the money dear," she replied, slipping his arm through
under and ran away. "Where have you picked up the beautiful boy," she called out, but did
not reply. You could hear the laughter of all the girls who had interrupted their work. They
went further, however, and came to a door that had a little pediment above, the gilt was worn by small caryatids.
For a boat saw the lavish furnishings from right.

Charles was, as he noted, never been in this area, probably driving the passengers of the first and second
class had been reserved during while facing great ship cleaning the separation of the doors had
dug now. They had actually already met some men, the brooms were in the shoulder and had greeted
the firemen. Karl marveled at the big company in its steerage, he had little experience of it
of course. Of course moved along the wires and electrical lines and a small bell could be heard
constantly. The fireman knocked respectfully at the door and called, as they come in "exclaimed
Charles with a wave of his hand on it without fear to enter. He was also, however, remained at the door.
Before the three windows of the room he saw the waves of the sea and in consideration of their
joyous movement beat his heart, when he had five long days the sea
not seen continuously.

Large ships crossed each other's way and gave the waves only to the extent as it allowed their severity.
If you made the eyes small, these vessels appeared to vary from sheer weight. On their masts
wore narrow, but long flags that were tightened by driving the while, though still up and warm-Appeltern.
Probably of warships her gun salute rang out, the cannon not too far of such a passing ship, the
bright reflection of its steel casing, with what were pampered from the safe, smooth ride, and
yet not horizontally. The smaller ships and boats could be, at least from the door, in the distance,
seen only as quantities in the openings between the big ships poured in in. Behind all this, however,
was New York and saw Charles with the hundred thousand windows of his skyscraper. Yes, in this room,
you knew where you were. At a round table sat three gentlemen, one a ship's officer in blue uniform
ship, the two others, officials of the Port Authority in black American uniforms. On the table
lay hochaufgeschichtet, various documents, which the officer with a pen in his hand passed over
to them to be rich, the other two which soon, read soon excerpted at first, soon their brief cases
lodged in, if not exactly the one, almost continuously make a little noise with his teeth performs,
his colleague in a protocol dictating anything.

At the window sat at a desk, the back of the door turned, a small master, large folio was busy
with the strong shelf at head height a prior on He had strung together. Beside him stood an
open, empty, at least at first sight spot. The second window was empty and had the best view. In
the vicinity of the third, two men stood in whispered conversation. The one leaning against the window,
wearing the ship's uniform and played with the hilt of his sword. The person with whom he spoke
was turned toward the window, revealing here and there by a movement
of a part of the order number on the chest of the other.

He was in civilian clothes and had a thin bamboo stick, which, as he hands on her hips holding
both like a sword distance. Karl did not have much time to look at everything, for soon became a
servant of them up and asked the heater with a look, as he does not
belong here, what he wanted.

The fireman replied, as quietly as he was asked, he would talk with the Chief Cashier. The servant
leaned his part with a hand motion for this request from, but it went tiptoe, the round table on a
large sheet evasive on to the Lord with the tome. This gentleman - that could be seen clearly
solidified - almost in the words of the servant returned, but finally the man to look, who wished to
speak, and waved then, strictly defensive, against the heater and for safety against a servant out
also .

The servant went out back to the heater and said in a tone as he trusted him of something: "Scissors you
immediately out of the room," The fireman saw this answer to Karl down to, as this was his heart,
he's dumb Jammer suit. Without further reflection is freed Karl, ran across the room that he was
even slightly the chair of the officer brushed against the servant was bent with the embrace
prepare arms as he hunted a vermin, but Karl was the first in the table of the Lord Treasurer,
where he was holding, in the event that the servant should try to drag him away. Of course, like
the whole room was alive. The ship's officer at the table had risen, Mr Port Authority did calm
of that, but carefully, the two gentlemen windows were on each other come, the servant, who
thought he was there, where even the great men showed interest, not
out of place , resigned.

The
heater was waiting at the door tight to the moment, until his help was needed. The chief cashier
at length in his armchair, a large right turn. Charles rummaged out of his stash, which he views
these people to show no concern was the one out his passport, which he opened on another idea
put the table instead. The chief cashier seemed of secondary importance to keep pass this,
because he snapped two fingers aside, what Karl as though this formality
satisfaction done for the pass plug in again.

"I venture to say," he began, "that my believe that the Lord heater harm occurs. There is a certain
Schubal which it sits. He has been on many ships, all of which he can call you to complete satisfaction
is served on, hard working, it says its working well, and it is not really clear why he was just
on this ship, but where the service is not so excessively difficult, such as sailors on merchant
should follow bad. Therefore, it can only be defamation, which in its progress and stop him from bringing
him to the recognition that it would definitely not be missing otherwise.

I just have this thing said about the general, his specific complaints, he will raise themselves.
"Karl had this speech to all the men turned himself because yes indeed all who listened and it seemed
much more likely that among all together is just, found, as this just now that the chief cashier
should be. From cunning Karl also had concealed that he had known only a short time the heater
Sun Moreover, he had better speak much, if not by the red face of
the Lord with the bamboo cane would have been led astray, that he
his present location for the first time saw of.

"It's word is all word for right," said the fireman, before someone asked him yet, so we still
had glimpsed it on him at all before. This precipitation of the heater would have been a big mistake,
if not the Lord with the medals, which, as Karl lit up now, at least the captain, was apparently
already agreed to be with, listen to the heater. He stretched out the hand and that is called to
the fireman, "Come here!" With one voice, fixed to a hammer to hit with. Now everything depended
on the behavior of the heater off, for what the justice of his cause arrived at the Charles did not
doubt. Fortunately, on this occasion showed that the heater in the world was much traveled already.
Exemplars calmly he took from his suitcase with the first handle a bundle of papers and a notebook,
went so as to understand the self, with total neglect of the chief treasurer, captain and spread
its evidence on the windowsill. The chief purser was nothing as hinzubemühn themselves. "The man is a known
troublemaker," he said, declaring that "he is more in cash than in the engine room. He Schubal, this quiet man,
despair brought to the whole. Listen again, "he said to the fireman," you push your importunity but
already too far. How many times have you thrown out of the rooms already paid, as you would with
your own and without exception completely unjustified claims deserve,
how often you are there in the main box office run came from!

How many times have you said in the good that is your immediate superior Schubal solely with you
as a subordinate to terms have to be yourself! And now you are even here yet, when the gentleman, captain
shame is not to harass him even, but audacity can see not even as a learned vocal leader of your
absurd these little charges brought, the general for the first time on the ship I! Karl stayed
with force jump forward. But already there was also the captain, who said, "we hear the man
but once. The Schubal is me anyway with a lot of time to self, by which I want to have your say favor
anything but.

"The latter was for the firemen, it was only natural that he should immediately use for him
could not, but all seemed on the right track. The firemen began his explanations and overcame
at the very beginning by Schubal with 'Lord,' dubbed the. As Karl was pleased at the abandoned
desk of the chief treasurer, where he was a Briefwage always oppressed with pleasure. - Schubal
is unfair, Mr Mr Schubal preferred the foreigners! Mr. Schubal referred the heater from the engine
and let it clean John, but certainly not what the heater thing was! - Once Schubal has even questioned
the efficiency of the Lord, which apparently should be rather than real. At this point Karl stared
at the captain with all his might, affectionate, as he was his colleague, only that he is the
somewhat awkward expression of the heater do not let its influence
to the detriment. After all, it was learned from the many speeches does not
really and if the captain is still in front of him looked, in the
eyes of the determination, the heater time to listen to the end, so
but the other men were impatient, and the voice of the stoker's soon
no longer absolute in the space, which many had feared.

The first gentleman sat in the civil action in his bamboo cane and
beat, albeit quietly, on the floor.

The other men did, of course, and to that, here, gentlemen of the port authority, the hurry
was apparently attacked again on the file and began, though still somewhat absent-minded, they
look through, the ship's officer drew his table again approaching, and the chief cashier, the
game value believed to have sighed deeply on out of irony. From the generally occurring dispersal seemed
to be only the servant preserved by the sufferings of the larger
of made poor man's part sympathized one and Karl nodded gravely, as
if to explain something.

Today was the windows of the harbor life on front and a flat barge with a pile of barrels, which
had to be stowed wonderful that they do not roll came to pass, pulled, creating in the room almost dark,
small motorboats, Charles now if he had just had time, could have rustled watch, after the convulsions
the hands of a driving upright man straight away; peculiar floating body appeared here and there,
independently of the restless water, were again flooded immediately and sank before the astonished
gaze; boats, the ocean steamer were hot-working sailors vorwärtsgerudert from and were full
of passengers when in it, just as they had squeezed them, sat silent and expectant, even if it could
not refrain from certain, according to the changing scenes to turn heads. A movement without end, a
restlessness, transferred from the restless element to the helpless people and their works! But all urged
to hurry, for clarity, to very precise detail, but what did the heater! He talked himself into a sweat,
however, the papers on the window he could with his trembling hands no longer hold a long time,
all directions flowed out of him Schubal complaints about, for those of his opinion of each individual
would have enough to fully buried Schubal this, but what he could show the captain, was only a
sad Durcheinanderstrudeln all whole. has long been whistled the man with the bamboo sticks to
the ceiling up low, the Lords of the port authority held by even the officer at her table and
showed no sign of him again to let go ever, the chief cashier was obviously only through
the rest of the Dreinfahren withheld from the master, the servant expected to attention every
moment of the heater to a respective order of his master. There was more Karl did not do nothing.
So he went slowly towards the group and wondered while walking only faster, as far as possible,
sent to attack could cause the. It was really high time for a little longer only, and they could
very well fly out of both the Bureau. The captain might indeed be a good man and, moreover,
just now, as Charles seemed to have any particular reason, is superior to show as just, but in
the end he was not an instrument that you could play ground and reason - and just as treated
him the fireman, but his boundless revolt inside out.

Karl said to the stoker, "You must tell the simple, clear, Captain can not appreciate it, as you
tell him about it. Does he have all the engineers and errand boy by name or even the Christian names
that he, if you pronounce such a name only, just to know who it is? Arrange your symptoms but,
most important, you say the first and the other descending, perhaps it will no longer be necessary
to mention only the most too. I have it yet so clearly displayed always, "If you can steal suitcases
in America, you can also lie here and there, he thought the apology. If only it would have helped
but! Whether it is not already too late? The heater stopped it now, as he known voice heard,
but with his eyes, all tears of the injured man's honor, the terrible memories of the extreme
current emergency concealed, were able by his Karl well not even be perceived. How should He even
now - Karl saw the silence in front of the now silent indeed a - how should he now suddenly his manner
of speech change, since he seemed as if he had anything that had
to be said without the slightest recognition already made and as though
other hand, he still said nothing, and yet the men now could not expect,
nor hear anything.

And at such a moment Karl is still, his only followers, therefore, his teachings will be good shows,
but he instead that everything, everything is lost. "If I had come sooner, rather than to look
out the window," said the Karl lowered before the fireman's face and his hands at your sides, as
a sign of the end of all hope. But the heater misunderstood that, probably in Charles sensed any secret
allegations against him, and with the good intention, they talk him out, began he for the coronation of
his actions now to fight with Karl. Now, even though the men at the round table long ago about the
useless noise were outraged, the important work bothered her, where the Chief Cashier gradually
the patience of the captain's incomprehensible, and found an immediate outbreak tended, where the
servant, just back in the sphere of his masters , the heater wild eyes, competes with, and where,
finally, the man with the bamboo sticks, to which even the captain
and as a friendly looking over here, completely blunted counter to
the heater, so it disgusted, a little notebook pulled out and, obviously
with very different matters concerned, the eyes between the notebook
and Karl back and let thrash around.

"I know, I know," said Karl, who had trouble, now it the surge of the heater to ward off against
introspective, but still by all dispute nor across a friends smile for him had left, "you are right,
right, I've never doubted it." He he would have liked out of fear of blows to drive around hands held
still preferred, however, it makes an angle pushed in to him a few quiet calming whisper words
that nobody else would have to listen. But the heater was out of hand. Karl started now even
from the idea to create a kind of consolation that the heater emergency with the strength of his
desperation could conquer all seven men in the present.

However, on the desk, as a glance taught there, essay with too many buttons of the electrical
line and a hand, just click on it depressed one, was the ship all its people-filled corridors hostile
rebel do with. Occurred because of it Sun disinterested man with the bamboo sticks to Charles and
asked, not loudly, but clearly above all shouts of the heater, "What's your name anyway?" At this
moment, as if someone had the door to this expression of the Lord waited behind a knocking . The
servant looked over to the captain, who nodded. Therefore, the servant went to the door and
opened it. Outside, Rock Kaiser stood in an old man of medium proportions,
his appearance does not really work the machines, and yet was capable
of - Schubal.

If Karl had known the eyes of all not to express a certain satisfaction, of which not even the
captain was free, he would have to see to his horror at the heater to
the fists clenched on the arms as streamlined as if this concentration
the most important thing to him, he lives he had to sacrifice, willing
something, is everything

.
 His pious indignation was excited by the honors of Serapis; and the insults
which he offered to an ancient temple of Bacchus, convinced the Pagans that he meditated a
more important and dangerous enterprise. In the tumultuous capital of Egypt, the slightest
provocation was sufficient to inflame a civil war. The votaries of Serapis, whose strength
and numbers were much inferior to those of their antagonists, rose in arms at the instigation
of the philosopher Olympius, who exhorted them to die in the defence of the altars of the gods.
These Pagan fanatics fortified themselves in the temple, or rather fortress, of Serapis; repelled
the besiegers by daring sallies, and a resolute defence; and, by the inhuman cruelties which
they exercised on their Christian prisoners, obtained the last consolation of despair. The
efforts of the prudent magistrate were usefully exerted for the establishment of a truce, till
the answer of Theodosius should determine the fate of Serapis. The two parties assembled, without
arms, in the principal square; and the Imperial rescript was publicly read. But when a sentence
of destruction against the idols of Alexandria was pronounced, the Christians set up a shout
of joy and exultation, whilst the unfortunate Pagans, whose fury had given way to consternation,
retired with hasty and silent steps, and eluded, by their flight or obscurity, the resentment
of their enemies. Theophilus proceeded to demolish the temple of Serapis, without any other
difficulties, than those which he found in the weight and solidity of the materials: but these
obstacles proved so insuperable, that he was obliged to leave the foundations; and to content
himself with reducing the edifice itself to a heap of rubbish, a part of which was soon afterwards
cleared away, to make room for a church, erected in honor of the Christian martyrs. The compositions
of ancient genius, so many of which have irretrievably perished, might surely have been excepted
from the wreck of idolatry, for the amusement and instruction of succeeding ages; and either
the zeal or the avarice of the archbishop, might have been satiated with the rich spoils, which
were the reward of his victory. While the images and vases of gold and silver were carefully
melted, and those of a less valuable metal were contemptuously broken, and cast into the streets,
Theophilus labored to expose the frauds and vices of the ministers of the idols; their dexterity
in the management of the loadstone; their secret methods of introducing a human actor into
a hollow statue; and their scandalous abuse of the confidence of devout husbands and unsuspecting
females. Charges like these may seem to deserve some degree of credit, as they are not repugnant
to the crafty and interested spirit of superstition. But the same spirit is equally prone to
the base practice of insulting and calumniating a fallen enemy; and our belief is naturally
checked by the reflection, that it is much less difficult to invent a fictitious story, than
to support a practical fraud. The colossal statue of Serapis was involved in the ruin of his
temple and religion. A great number of plates of different metals, artificially joined together,
composed the majestic figure of the deity, who touched on either side the walls of the sanctuary.
The aspect of Serapis, his sitting posture, and the sceptre, which he bore in his left hand,
were extremely similar to the ordinary representations of Jupiter. He was distinguished from
Jupiter by the basket, or bushel, which was placed on his head; and by the emblematic monster
which he held in his right hand; the head and body of a serpent branching into three tails,
which were again terminated by the triple heads of a dog, a lion, and a wolf. It was confidently
affirmed, that if any impious hand should dare to violate the majesty of the god, the heavens
and the earth would instantly return to their original chaos. An intrepid soldier, animated
by zeal, and armed with a weighty battle-axe, ascended the ladder; and even the Christian multitude
expected, with some anxiety, the event of the combat. He aimed a vigorous stroke against the
cheek of Serapis; the cheek fell to the ground; the thunder was still silent, and both the
heavens and the earth continued to preserve their accustomed order and tranquillity. The victorious
soldier repeated his blows: the huge idol was overthrown, and broken in pieces; and the limbs
of Serapis were ignominiously dragged through the streets of Alexandria. His mangled carcass
was burnt in the Amphitheatre, amidst the shouts of the populace; and many persons attributed
their conversion to this discovery of the impotence of their tutelar deity. The popular modes
of religion, that propose any visible and material objects of worship, have the advantage of
adapting and familiarizing themselves to the senses of mankind: but this advantage is counterbalanced
by the various and inevitable accidents to which the faith of the idolater is exposed. It is
scarcely possible, that, in every disposition of mind, he should preserve his implicit reverence
for the idols, or the relics, which the naked eye, and the profane hand, are unable to distinguish
from the most common productions of art or nature; and if, in the hour of danger, their secret
and miraculous virtue does not operate for their own preservation, he scorns the vain apologies
of his priests, and justly derides the object, and the folly, of his superstitious attachment.
After the fall of Serapis, some hopes were still entertained by the Pagans, that the Nile would
refuse his annual supply to the impious masters of Egypt; and the extraordinary delay of the
inundation seemed to announce the displeasure of the river-god. But this delay was soon compensated
by the rapid swell of the waters. They suddenly rose to such an unusual height, as to comfort
the discontented party with the pleasing expectation of a deluge; till the peaceful river again
subsided to the well-known and fertilizing level of sixteen cubits, or about thirty English feet.

The temples of the Roman empire were deserted, or destroyed; but the ingenious superstition
of the Pagans still attempted to elude the laws of Theodosius, by which all sacrifices had
been severely prohibited. The inhabitants of the country, whose conduct was less opposed to
the eye of malicious curiosity, disguised their religious, under the appearance of convivial,
meetings. On the days of solemn festivals, they assembled in great numbers under the spreading
shade of some consecrated trees; sheep and oxen were slaughtered and roasted; and this rural
entertainment was sanctified by the use of incense, and by the hymns which were sung in honor
of the gods. But it was alleged, that, as no part of the animal was made a burnt-offering,
as no altar was provided to receive the blood, and as the previous oblation of salt cakes,
and the concluding ceremony of libations, were carefully omitted, these festal meetings did
not involve the guests in the guilt, or penalty, of an illegal sacrifice. Whatever might be
the truth of the facts, or the merit of the distinction, these vain pretences were swept away
by the last edict of Theodosius, which inflicted a deadly wound on the superstition of the
Pagans. This prohibitory law is expressed in the most absolute and comprehensive terms. "It
is our will and pleasure," says the emperor, "that none of our subjects, whether magistrates
or private citizens, however exalted or however humble may be their rank and condition, shall
presume, in any city or in any place, to worship an inanimate idol, by the sacrifice of a guiltless
victim." The act of sacrificing, and the practice of divination by the entrails of the victim,
are declared (without any regard to the object of the inquiry) a crime of high treason against
the state, which can be expiated only by the death of the guilty. The rites of Pagan superstition,
which might seem less bloody and atrocious, are abolished, as highly injurious to the truth
and honor of religion; luminaries, garlands, frankincense, and libations of wine, are specially
enumerated and condemned; and the harmless claims of the domestic genius, of the household
gods, are included in this rigorous proscription. The use of any of these profane and illegal
ceremonies, subjects the offender to the forfeiture of the house or estate, where they have
been performed; and if he has artfully chosen the property of another for the scene of his
impiety, he is compelled to discharge, without delay, a heavy fine of twenty-five pounds of
gold, or more than one thousand pounds sterling. A fine, not less considerable, is imposed
on the connivance of the secret enemies of religion, who shall neglect the duty of their respective
stations, either to reveal, or to punish, the guilt of idolatry. Such was the persecuting spirit
of the laws of Theodosius, which were repeatedly enforced by his sons and grandsons, with the
loud and unanimous applause of the Christian world.

Chapter XXVIII: Destruction Of Paganism.--Part III.

In the cruel reigns of Decius and Dioclesian, Christianity had been proscribed, as a revolt
from the ancient and hereditary religion of the empire; and the unjust suspicions which were
entertained of a dark and dangerous faction, were, in some measure, countenanced by the inseparable
union and rapid conquests of the Catholic church. But the same excuses of fear and ignorance
cannot be applied to the Christian emperors who violated the precepts of humanity and of the
Gospel. The experience of ages had betrayed the weakness, as well as folly, of Paganism; the
light of reason and of faith had already exposed, to the greatest part of mankind, the vanity
of idols; and the declining sect, which still adhered to their worship, might have been permitted
to enjoy, in peace and obscurity, the religious costumes of their ancestors. Had the Pagans
been animated by the undaunted zeal which possessed the minds of the primitive believers, the
triumph of the Church must have been stained with blood; and the martyrs of Jupiter and Apollo
might have embraced the glorious opportunity of devoting their lives and fortunes at the foot
of their altars. But such obstinate zeal was not congenial to the loose and careless temper
of Polytheism. The violent and repeated strokes of the orthodox princes were broken by the
soft and yielding substance against which they were directed; and the ready obedience of the
Pagans protected them from the pains and penalties of the Theodosian Code. Instead of asserting,
that the authority of the gods was superior to that of the emperor, they desisted, with a plaintive
murmur, from the use of those sacred rites which their sovereign had condemned. If they were
sometimes tempted by a sally of passion, or by the hopes of concealment, to indulge their favorite
superstition, their humble repentance disarmed the severity of the Christian magistrate, and
they seldom refused to atone for their rashness, by submitting, with some secret reluctance,
to the yoke of the Gospel. The churches were filled with the increasing multitude of these
unworthy proselytes, who had conformed, from temporal motives, to the reigning religion; and
whilst they devoutly imitated the postures, and recited the prayers, of the faithful, they
satisfied their conscience by the silent and sincere invocation of the gods of antiquity. If
the Pagans wanted patience to suffer they wanted spirit to resist; and the scattered myriads,
who deplored the ruin of the temples, yielded, without a contest, to the fortune of their adversaries.
The disorderly opposition of the peasants of Syria, and the populace of Alexandria, to the
rage of private fanaticism, was silenced by the name and authority of the emperor. The Pagans
of the West, without contributing to the elevation of Eugenius, disgraced, by their partial
attachment, the cause and character of the usurper. The clergy vehemently exclaimed, that he
aggravated the crime of rebellion by the guilt of apostasy; that, by his permission, the altar
of victory was again restored; and that the idolatrous symbols of Jupiter and Hercules were
displayed in the field, against the invincible standard of the cross. But the vain hopes of
the Pagans were soon annihilated by the defeat of Eugenius; and they were left exposed to the
resentment of the conqueror, who labored to deserve the favor of Heaven by the extirpation
of idolatry.

A nation of slaves is always prepared to applaud the clemency of their master, who, in the
abuse of absolute power, does not proceed to the last extremes of injustice and oppression.
Theodosius might undoubtedly have proposed to his Pagan subjects the alternative of baptism
or of death; and the eloquent Libanius has praised the moderation of a prince, who never enacted,
by any positive law, that all his subjects should immediately embrace and practise the religion
of their sovereign. The profession of Christianity was not made an essential qualification
for the enjoyment of the civil rights of society, nor were any peculiar hardships imposed on
the sectaries, who credulously received the fables of Ovid, and obstinately rejected the miracles
of the Gospel. The palace, the schools, the army, and the senate, were filled with declared
and devout Pagans; they obtained, without distinction, the civil and military honors of the
empire. Theodosius distinguished his liberal regard for virtue and genius by the consular dignity,
which he bestowed on Symmachus; and by the personal friendship which he expressed to Libanius;
and the two eloquent apologists of Paganism were never required either to change or to dissemble
their religious opinions. The Pagans were indulged in the most licentious freedom of speech
and writing; the historical and philosophic remains of Eunapius, Zosimus, and the fanatic teachers
of the school of Plato, betray the most furious animosity, and contain the sharpest invectives,
against the sentiments and conduct of their victorious adversaries. If these audacious libels
were publicly known, we must applaud the good sense of the Christian princes, who viewed, with
a smile of contempt, the last struggles of superstition and despair. But the Imperial laws,
which prohibited the sacrifices and ceremonies of Paganism, were rigidly executed; and every
hour contributed to destroy the influence of a religion, which was supported by custom, rather
than by argument. The devotion or the poet, or the philosopher, may be secretly nourished by
prayer, meditation, and study; but the exercise of public worship appears to be the only solid
foundation of the religious sentiments of the people, which derive their force from imitation
and habit. The interruption of that public exercise may consummate, in the period of a few
years, the important work of a national revolution. The memory of theological opinions cannot
long be preserved, without the artificial helps of priests, of temples, and of books. The ignorant
vulgar, whose minds are still agitated by the blind hopes and terrors of superstition, will
be soon persuaded by their superiors to direct their vows to the reigning deities of the age;
and will insensibly imbibe an ardent zeal for the support and propagation of the new doctrine,
which spiritual hunger at first compelled them to accept. I saw how there from her maid took the
silver toilet water and cologne to rubbing the sore spot. Were then brought beautiful glazed gloves,
which cut off the cap, so that the fingertips could hervorsehen delicate yet, and the gracious hand so
clothed.

Meanwhile the young ladies had whispered our names, the men came closer to us and asked us over
indifference, which we responded again indifferent to the soul of the house came in again. The
Noble knew her grief for the ongoing hand to hide so well that they followed to a home business
seemed to be only or even the old sinner himself knew nothing of the mischief he had caused. The
only punishment was that they gave him a piercing look for stinging
kiss on the hand threw his, and tell me the whole evening before striking
him distinguished.

Readers will have seen that it is quite elegant tea was one, which had guided us to the poet. The solid
silver tea-urn, on which the younger daughter tea, prepared the sumptuous
Chandeliers and mirrors, the burning colors of the carpets and wallpaper,
the artificial flowers in the delicate vases, and finally the society
itself, the costume black and white mixed was fully in, to the level
and good tone of the housewife could close.

The tea, however, as pointed out aesthetically. Ma'am regretted that we had come not earlier.
The young poet Fruehauf had dozens of punches from a heroic poem read to some, so intimate, so vague,
with so much music in the final rhyme, that one time not pleasant heard was long in that there can not be
expected that it caused a sensation make Germany will in general . We mourned the loss of infinite,
the modest laurel-crowned young man assured us, but under his hand,
he would tomorrow visit in our hotel, and we should not just the few
punches he abandoned here, but to hear some chants completely get.

The conversation was now but a different turn. An elderly lady let her work bag range, the stylish new embroidery
and the eyes of the ladies moved on. She took a book out of it and said in a friendly whisper: "Voyez
la the latest product of my genius friend, Johanna. They gave it to me fresh off the press, sent
from, and I'm so happy, the first being that here it has . I've only browsed a little, but these
wonderful situations, these scenes, so all the life taken from, the
truth of the characters, this gleaming style - ""

You make me curious, wife of Wollau, "interrupted the lady she of the house, I "must ask -? Ah,
G Abriel by Johanna Schopenhauer. With this, you are tied, my love?" I wish you luck. "" We
got to know in Carlsbad, "said Madame de Wollau," our souls recognized each other in the same quest
for refined goal of humanity [Footnote: Madame de Wollau will probably
say: "according to the objectives of improvement" .-- The Editor.],
they put on, we made love.

And when they told me now their Gabriele sent. "" That is a very interesting acquaintance, "said Miss
N atalie the older daughter of the house. "Ah, a man but also so happy would be it goes! Nothing
about a brilliant lady.

But you say where you have the beautiful pattern here, I can pocket not your admire enough." Schoen
beautiful - - and the colors ! And the garlands - And the elegant shape! " echoed from the lips
of the beautiful Teetrinkerinnen, and the poor would be perhaps Gabriele about the work of art had been forgotten
entirely if not us, he invited poets, the book would have access to.

"I have called the most interesting scenes," said the Wollau "Which of the men is so pleasing to us, if it
otherwise the company is pleasant to read it? "" Beautiful - beautiful - an excellent idea - "it sounded
again, and our guide, who at this moment the book in the hand had
been elected by acclamation to the reader.

They poured the cup again and handed round the dainty buns to food but also give the body, mind,
with a new novel was fed while, and all were provided than were the
housewife the mark and the lecture began. Nearly an hour reading with poets sonorous
voice out of the book before. I know little more of it than that,
if I mistake not, the description of the panels contained the ladies
of the great world were listed by some.

My ear was only half or not at the lecture, because I listened to the outpourings of two ladies
who apparently aware of the reader, each other all sorts of important
whispered in the ears.

Luckily I was sitting far enough from them to not suspected of listening to get into the, and yet the distance
was just so great that a pair of ears hear anything good could.

One of the two was the younger daughter of the house, I heard like, Guard lieutenant her heart had
lost one of. "And think you," she whispered next door to her, "today in the morning he has his squadron
ridden with, and under my window, the trumpeter of ultimately have to start the canter waltz.
"" You were lucky! " replied the other lady, "and Mama noticed anything?" "As little as of
late, he teased me five times in the cotillion. What I was embarrassed
at that time, you can not believe it.

... I was between the attache involved with and you know how unbearable
I arid man pursued this. He was already the Italian areas of southern
Germany starting with me and not given to understand vaguely that
she wishes he could still, when I told him there are hesitant, because
free me of the love Fladorp from this pain.

But once he had me back again, as the unbearable sang his old song again, but Edward took me
four times out of his brilliant phrases, so that was silent with rage before, when I came
back the last time. He voiced against Mama's dissatisfaction, they
seemed not to understand.

"" Oh, how happy you are, "sadly replied the neighbor," but I know, do you know that my Scrooge
is offset hall as how it will be with me "" I know it and sorry for you from the heart, but
tell me how this came so quickly? "" Oh! " replied the lady, and secretly crushed a tear in his eye,
- "oh, you have no idea of the cabal that in life there is. You know, like Scrooge always eager for the
good of the country was. Since he now had a new Tattoo invented, he gave it to me the window auditioned
on, he is charming. His colonel, he also liked very well, but these have wanted him to him the
honor of the invention can. Of course, could Scrooge not to do so and raised about it, rested The colonel
does not stop until the arms have been is offset hall after.

Oh, you can not you even imagine how sad my heart is lost if the tattoo my window to pass by,
they play him all night after the new invention, and the , who made him can not hear him! "" I pity
you right.

But know you also have something new? them in the Guard other uniforms
get that?

"" Is it possible? O tell, how? How do you know it "" Listen, but in the strictest confidence, for it is still
deep, dark secret. Eduard has it of his colonel and confessed it to me recently, but under the seal
of the deepest secrecy. Look, the buttons are placed further apart on the chest and continue close to the
bottom, in this way, the waist a lot leaner and then they are golden Achselschnuere also get
the white but the Colonel and I believe even the general still not entirely certain. by his trousers done
too Vera end stanchions - Eduard must look like an angel - now you see ...." whispered softly now,
so I cut the guard over the trousers right to come could not clear. Only so much I saw that
beautiful eyes platonic feelings quite a nice fire have in that they are much more charming
glow, however, far more brilliant rays throw in if they sense L ove
in them.

Reflects * * * * * CHAPTER XIII. Fear hours of Wandering Jew. The Reader was a section to come
in and put the book down.

General applause was, and the habitual exclamations, which had been
subject to the embroidery has been also given to Gabriele.

I had presence of mind and quick comprehension of the two young ladies do not admire enough,
although not the smallest part of what was read might have heard, so they were so well trained
to know that it is full of admiration seemed.

One even ran out to women of Wollau took her hand and pressed it to the heart by her thanked her dearly
for the pleasure, the all ready have them. This lady but sat there, full of splendor and glory,
as if they would have brought to the Gabriele world itself. After thanking all sides for the praise
of her friend have been bestowed, and not hinted vaguely that they might agree on the new book
had had influence themselves, for they think now and then quietly echoes their own ideas about
to inner life and about the status of women in society, which they intimate hours of her friend
in open.

It was so good, of course, their compliments to make some reason, although they were generally convinced
that the genius girlfriend nothing from the inner life would have
Wollauschen Something spewed.

The Eternal Jew had in these processes, however, played a very strange
figure.

Verwunderungsvoll he looked into it in this world, he trust his eyes and ears. But there was also
an endeavor, according to my rule and critical look aesthetically, not to be mistaken. But because his
practice is departed, so he cut as horrible grimaces that he several times during the reading,
the attention of the whole circle to be moved and the lady of the house me sympathetically asked if
Hofmeister not mine was good. I excused him with a toothache that assailed him sometimes, and
believed to have made everything right again. But when Madame de Wollau which he was sitting
opposite their influence on the poetess, stated, had the precious,
being bolted to the same old people seem so strange that it loud laughed.

Who ever had the luck, the elegant tea in polite society hoechst attend one that can be imagined,
as if embarrassed, all were when this rude outburst of scorn rang. An unpleasant, dead silent
pause was made in which the doctor you soon Mucker, soon offended the lady looked at. The woman
of the house remember the stinging kiss, was about the naughty foreigners,
the decency of their house so grossly violated the one without reserve
rebuke, as this more skill and cunning, as I could have, had dared
speak out to draw knew the affair with .

I hope, madam, "he said," you are ill-timed laughter not misunderstand,
however, mine and allow me to justify myself.

It is all of you certainly already met and that an association of
ideas you except CONTENANCE brought completely.

Is it already many, among the holiest things, a ridiculous idea pushed
open, the mouth tickled him, and the more he was trying to suppress
him to behave and the more unstoppable he burst forth at once.

It happened to me at that moment. would you take infinitely oblige me, ma'am, if you allow me,
through candid narration of Wollau me to apologize to women. "Lady, greatly pleased to have the
decency not injured but was guaranteed respecting his request to him kindly, and began the Wandering
Jew: "Women of Wollau us interesting relationship to a famous poet
told her, she tells us, how many hours over in their literary works,
it discussed with, and this reminded me very much of an anecdote
of my own life."

On a Journey through Southern Germany, I spent some time in S. My Abendspaziergaenge directed mostly
to the royal garden, which every class periods of the day was open
to all.

The beautiful world, let there by foot and car to see every night. I chose the lonelier parts of the
garden, where I, bushes and unwanted visits from the sun locked tight on soft Moosbaenken me and
my ideas lived on. "One night, as I have time on my Lieblingsplaetzchen had long since rested, well-dressed,
two elderly women and sat down on a bench, a small but leafy hedge of mine was separated by only. I
did not bother to them my close, they seemed to have no idea to give to recognize. curiosity
by the way it was not what kept me, for I knew no soul in that city;
so I could be indifferent hoechst their speeches.

But ask yourself before my astonishment, my dear, when I heard the following conversation: "'Well?
And may I wish you luck, love? Have you finally Thrust Elise from the world of this accomplishment?
'"' Yes, 'replied the other lady,' this morning after coffee I've
killed her '."

Terror ran through my limbs as I clearly and speak so indifferent to a murder heard, as quiet as possible,
I approached completely the hedge, which they parted, sharpened my ears like a spaniel that I so miss
anything should be, and heard on: "'And as you have her death taught the how habitually , by
poison or did the unhappy, as Othello his Desdemona, smothered with a coverlet? '"' Neither 'replied
that,' but quite hard to me was this murder, you think, three days I had even between life and death,
and always I did not know what I should start with her.

Then I thought, finally daring means a one, I let her, as a coincidence
of a bridge without railings in the deep power down gently by the
waves were breaking over her again.

     It has nothing Elisen seen more of. '"' You did well, and
     which number was that they killed one or the
     other way on? '"' Well, that will soon be counted, Pauline Dupuis,
     Marie, etc. But the former I wore one the most money.

These were still the good times in 1802, where a few competing with. I '"The hairs stood by me to the
mountain. So five innocent creatures from the world this woman had done already. Was not it a good
work in human society, when I such an atrocity revealed and the murderer to justice drew? "The ladies
were up after a few indifferent talks and had turned the city. Quietly I got up and crept after
them like a shadow following her heels. They walked through the promenade, I followed, and turned
back and went through the gate, I followed, they finally seemed to notice my observations,
for the one looked at me several times after, her evil conscience
seemed to me wakes up, she might suspect that I knew the murder, she
wants me through the different direction of the roads, that is entering
it, deceived, but I follow -.

Finally, they are still at a house. Pull the bell on one closes, they enter. As soon as they are in the
door, I go up fast, I remember the number of the house and hurry, driven by that zeal which
the discovery of such a terrible secret in any upset, should cover the management of the police.
"I ask the Director to guard. I told him put the whole thing, all I had heard apart, but, unfortunately,
knows of the murdered man not be identified by its true name, but a certain P Aulin D uis up,
which in 1802 under the murderous hand the woman died. But this was the in such cases police man grizzled
enough. He thanked me for my zeal, immediately sends patrols in the
streets, which he called me and asks me to it when the night there
will fallen completely in to accompany that house.

The night
he would rather hand select this because it is such scenes the throng of men and the attention
to avoid if possible. "The night came, we went. The police soldiers who had surrounded the house,
assured that no man had left the same. The bird was then captured. We left our house open, and
began the first floor of our investigation. Just outside the door of the first room I heard
the voices of two women.

Ig I open and clearly explain to the police director, the small elderly lady the criminal as. "Astonished
stood on it and asked about our desire. In her eyes, her whole being had this lady something that
impressed me. I got a moment the text, pointing only to the director
in order to question those denying their motion.

But this did not leave easily amaze Sun With that serious official air of a crime the judge he asked
her about today's walk from her. you admitted it, even as the bank,
where they sat

.
 The minister, who viewed with proud indifference the rest of mankind,
never forgave the appearance of an injury; and his personal enemies had forfeited, in his opinion,
the merit of all public services. Promotus, the master-general of the infantry, had saved the
empire from the invasion of the Ostrogoths; but he indignantly supported the preeminence of
a rival, whose character and profession he despised; and in the midst of a public council,
the impatient soldier was provoked to chastise with a blow the indecent pride of the favorite.
This act of violence was represented to the emperor as an insult, which it was incumbent on
his dignity to resent. The disgrace and exile of Promotus were signified by a peremptory order,
to repair, without delay, to a military station on the banks of the Danube; and the death of
that general (though he was slain in a skirmish with the Barbarians) was imputed to the perfidious
arts of Rufinus. The sacrifice of a hero gratified his revenge; the honors of the consulship
elated his vanity; but his power was still imperfect and precarious, as long as the important
posts of præfect of the East, and of præfect of Constantinople, were filled by Tatian, and
his son Proculus; whose united authority balanced, for some time, the ambition and favor of
the master of the offices. The two præfects were accused of rapine and corruption in the administration
of the laws and finances. For the trial of these illustrious offenders, the emperor constituted
a special commission: several judges were named to share the guilt and reproach of injustice;
but the right of pronouncing sentence was reserved to the president alone, and that president
was Rufinus himself. The father, stripped of the præfecture of the East, was thrown into a
dungeon; but the son, conscious that few ministers can be found innocent, where an enemy is
their judge, had secretly escaped; and Rufinus must have been satisfied with the least obnoxious
victim, if despotism had not condescended to employ the basest and most ungenerous artifice.
The prosecution was conducted with an appearance of equity and moderation, which flattered
Tatian with the hope of a favorable event: his confidence was fortified by the solemn assurances,
and perfidious oaths, of the president, who presumed to interpose the sacred name of Theodosius
himself; and the unhappy father was at last persuaded to recall, by a private letter, the fugitive
Proculus. He was instantly seized, examined, condemned, and beheaded, in one of the suburbs
of Constantinople, with a precipitation which disappointed the clemency of the emperor. Without
respecting the misfortunes of a consular senator, the cruel judges of Tatian compelled him
to behold the execution of his son: the fatal cord was fastened round his own neck; but in
the moment when he expected and perhaps desired, the relief of a speedy death, he was permitted
to consume the miserable remnant of his old age in poverty and exile. The punishment of the
two præfects might, perhaps, be excused by the exceptionable parts of their own conduct; the
enmity of Rufinus might be palliated by the jealous and unsociable nature of ambition. But
he indulged a spirit of revenge equally repugnant to prudence and to justice, when he degraded
their native country of Lycia from the rank of Roman provinces; stigmatized a guiltless people
with a mark of ignominy; and declared, that the countrymen of Tatian and Proculus should forever
remain incapable of holding any employment of honor or advantage under the Imperial government.
The new præfect of the East (for Rufinus instantly succeeded to the vacant honors of his adversary)
was not diverted, however, by the most criminal pursuits, from the performance of the religious
duties, which in that age were considered as the most essential to salvation. In the suburb
of Chalcedon, surnamed the Oak, he had built a magnificent villa; to which he devoutly added
a stately church, consecrated to the apostles St. Peter and St. Paul, and continually sanctified
by the prayers and penance of a regular society of monks. A numerous, and almost general, synod
of the bishops of the Eastern empire, was summoned to celebrate, at the same time, the dedication
of the church, and the baptism of the founder. This double ceremony was performed with extraordinary
pomp; and when Rufinus was purified, in the holy font, from all the sins that he had hitherto
committed, a venerable hermit of Egypt rashly proposed himself as the sponsor of a proud and
ambitious statesman.

The character of Theodosius imposed on his minister the task of hypocrisy, which disguised,
and sometimes restrained, the abuse of power; and Rufinus was apprehensive of disturbing the
indolent slumber of a prince still capable of exerting the abilities and the virtue, which
had raised him to the throne. But the absence, and, soon afterwards, the death, of the emperor,
confirmed the absolute authority of Rufinus over the person and dominions of Arcadius; a feeble
youth, whom the imperious præfect considered as his pupil, rather than his sovereign. Regardless
of the public opinion, he indulged his passions without remorse, and without resistance; and
his malignant and rapacious spirit rejected every passion that might have contributed to his
own glory, or the happiness of the people. His avarice, which seems to have prevailed, in his
corrupt mind, over every other sentiment, attracted the wealth of the East, by the various
arts of partial and general extortion; oppressive taxes, scandalous bribery, immoderate fines,
unjust confiscations, forced or fictitious testaments, by which the tyrant despoiled of their
lawful inheritance the children of strangers, or enemies; and the public sale of justice, as
well as of favor, which he instituted in the palace of Constantinople. The ambitious candidate
eagerly solicited, at the expense of the fairest part of his patrimony, the honors and emoluments
of some provincial government; the lives and fortunes of the unhappy people were abandoned
to the most liberal purchaser; and the public discontent was sometimes appeased by the sacrifice
of an unpopular criminal, whose punishment was profitable only to the præfect of the East,
his accomplice and his judge. If avarice were not the blindest of the human passions, the motives
of Rufinus might excite our curiosity; and we might be tempted to inquire with what view he
violated every principle of humanity and justice, to accumulate those immense treasures, which
he could not spend without folly, nor possess without danger. Perhaps he vainly imagined, that
he labored for the interest of an only daughter, on whom he intended to bestow his royal pupil,
and the august rank of Empress of the East. Perhaps he deceived himself by the opinion, that
his avarice was the instrument of his ambition. He aspired to place his fortune on a secure
and independent basis, which should no longer depend on the caprice of the young emperor; yet
he neglected to conciliate the hearts of the soldiers and people, by the liberal distribution
of those riches, which he had acquired with so much toil, and with so much guilt. The extreme
parsimony of Rufinus left him only the reproach and envy of ill-gotten wealth; his dependants
served him without attachment; the universal hatred of mankind was repressed only by the influence
of servile fear. The fate of Lucian proclaimed to the East, that the præfect, whose industry
was much abated in the despatch of ordinary business, was active and indefatigable in the pursuit
of revenge. Lucian, the son of the præfect Florentius, the oppressor of Gaul, and the enemy
of Julian, had employed a considerable part of his inheritance, the fruit of rapine and corruption,
to purchase the friendship of Rufinus, and the high office of Count of the East. But the new
magistrate imprudently departed from the maxims of the court, and of the times; disgraced his
benefactor by the contrast of a virtuous and temperate administration; and presumed to refuse
an act of injustice, which might have tended to the profit of the emperor's uncle. Arcadius
was easily persuaded to resent the supposed insult; and the præfect of the East resolved to
execute in person the cruel vengeance, which he meditated against this ungrateful delegate
of his power. He performed with incessant speed the journey of seven or eight hundred miles,
from Constantinople to Antioch, entered the capital of Syria at the dead of night, and spread
universal consternation among a people ignorant of his design, but not ignorant of his character.
The Count of the fifteen provinces of the East was dragged, like the vilest malefactor, before
the arbitrary tribunal of Rufinus. Notwithstanding the clearest evidence of his integrity,
which was not impeached even by the voice of an accuser, Lucian was condemned, almost with
out a trial, to suffer a cruel and ignominious punishment. The ministers of the tyrant, by
the orders, and in the presence, of their master, beat him on the neck with leather thongs
armed at the extremities with lead; and when he fainted under the violence of the pain, he
was removed in a close litter, to conceal his dying agonies from the eyes of the indignant
city. No sooner had Rufinus perpetrated this inhuman act, the sole object of his expedition,
than he returned, amidst the deep and silent curses of a trembling people, from Antioch to
Constantinople; and his diligence was accelerated by the hope of accomplishing, without delay,
the nuptials of his daughter with the emperor of the East.

But Rufinus soon experienced, that a prudent minister should constantly secure his royal captive
by the strong, though invisible chain of habit; and that the merit, and much more easily the
favor, of the absent, are obliterated in a short time from the mind of a weak and capricious
sovereign. While the præfect satiated his revenge at Antioch, a secret conspiracy of the favorite
eunuchs, directed by the great chamberlain Eutropius, undermined his power in the palace of
Constantinople. They discovered that Arcadius was not inclined to love the daughter of Rufinus,
who had been chosen, without his consent, for his bride; and they contrived to substitute in
her place the fair Eudoxia, the daughter of Bauto, a general of the Franks in the service of
Rome; and who was educated, since the death of her father, in the family of the sons of Promotus.
The young emperor, whose chastity had been strictly guarded by the pious care of his tutor
Arsenius, eagerly listened to the artful and flattering descriptions of the charms of Eudoxia:
he gazed with impatient ardor on her picture, and he understood the necessity of concealing
his amorous designs from the knowledge of a minister who was so deeply interested to oppose
the consummation of his happiness. Soon after the return of Rufinus, the approaching ceremony
of the royal nuptials was announced to the people of Constantinople, who prepared to celebrate,
with false and hollow acclamations, the fortune of his daughter. A splendid train of eunuchs
and officers issued, in hymeneal pomp, from the gates of the palace; bearing aloft the diadem,
the robes, and the inestimable ornaments, of the future empress. The solemn procession passed
through the streets of the city, which were adorned with garlands, and filled with spectators;
but when it reached the house of the sons of Promotus, the principal eunuch respectfully entered
the mansion, invested the fair Eudoxia with the Imperial robes, and conducted her in triumph
to the palace and bed of Arcadius. The secrecy and success with which this conspiracy against
Rufinus had been conducted, imprinted a mark of indelible ridicule on the character of a minister,
who had suffered himself to be deceived, in a post where the arts of deceit and dissimulation
constitute the most distinguished merit. He considered, with a mixture of indignation and fear,
the victory of an aspiring eunuch, who had secretly captivated the favor of his sovereign;
and the disgrace of his daughter, whose interest was inseparably connected with his own, wounded
the tenderness, or, at least, the pride of Rufinus. At the moment when he flattered himself
that he should become the father of a line of kings, a foreign maid, who had been educated
in the house of his implacable enemies, was introduced into the Imperial bed; and Eudoxia soon
displayed a superiority of sense and spirit, to improve the ascendant which her beauty must
acquire over the mind of a fond and youthful husband. The emperor would soon be instructed
to hate, to fear, and to destroy the powerful subject, whom he had injured; and the consciousness
of guilt deprived Rufinus of every hope, either of safety or comfort, in the retirement of
a private life. But he still possessed the most effectual means of defending his dignity, and
perhaps of oppressing his enemies. The præfect still exercised an uncontrolled authority over
the civil and military government of the East; and his treasures, if he could resolve to use
them, might be employed to procure proper instruments for the execution of the blackest designs,
that pride, ambition, and revenge could suggest to a desperate statesman. The character of
Rufinus seemed to justify the accusations that he conspired against the person of his sovereign,
to seat himself on the vacant throne; and that he had secretly invited the Huns and the Goths
to invade the provinces of the empire, and to increase the public confusion. The subtle præfect,
whose life had been spent in the intrigues of the palace, opposed, with equal arms, the artful
measures of the eunuch Eutropius; but the timid soul of Rufinus was astonished by the hostile
approach of a more formidable rival, of the great Stilicho, the general, or rather the master,
of the empire of the West.

The celestial gift, which Achilles obtained, and Alexander envied, of a poet worthy to celebrate
the actions of heroes has been enjoyed by Stilicho, in a much higher degree than might have
been expected from the declining state of genius, and of art. The muse of Claudian, devoted
to his service, was always prepared to stigmatize his adversaries, Rufinus, or Eutropius, with
eternal infamy; or to paint, in the most splendid colors, the victories and virtues of a powerful
benefactor. In the review of a period indifferently supplied with authentic materials, we cannot
refuse to illustrate the annals of Honorius, from the invectives, or the panegyrics, of a contemporary
writer; but as Claudian appears to have indulged the most ample privilege of a poet and a courtier,
some criticism will be requisite to translate the language of fiction or exaggeration, into
the truth and simplicity of historic prose. His silence concerning the family of Stilicho may
be admitted as a proof, that his patron was neither able, nor desirous, to boast of a long
series of illustrious progenitors; and the slight mention of his father, an officer of Barbarian
cavalry in the service of Valens, seems to countenance the assertion, that the general, who
so long commanded the armies of Rome, was descended from the savage and perfidious race of
the Vandals. If Stilicho had not possessed the external advantages of strength and stature,
the most flattering bard, in the presence of so many thousand spectators, would have hesitated
to affirm, that he surpassed the measure of the demi-gods of antiquity; and that whenever he
moved, with lofty steps, through the streets of the capital, the astonished crowd made room
for the stranger, who displayed, in a private condition, the awful majesty of a hero. From
his earliest youth he embraced the profession of arms; his prudence and valor were soon distinguished
in the field; the horsemen and archers of the East admired his superior dexterity; and in each
degree of his military promotions, the public judgment always prevented and approved the choice
of the sovereign. He was named, by Theodosius, to ratify a solemn treaty with the monarch of
Persia; he supported, during that important embassy, the dignity of the Roman name; and after
he return to Constantinople, his merit was rewarded by an intimate and honorable alliance with
the Imperial family. Theodosius had been prompted, by a pious motive of fraternal affection,
to adopt, for his own, the daughter of his brother Honorius; the beauty and accomplishments
of Serena were universally admired by the obsequious court; and Stilicho obtained the preference
over a crowd of rivals, who ambitiously disputed the hand of the princess, and the favor of
her adopted father. The assurance that the husband of Serena would be faithful to the throne,
which he was permitted to approach, engaged the emperor to exalt the fortunes, and to employ
the abilities, of the sagacious and intrepid Stilicho. He rose, through the successive steps
of master of the horse, and count of the domestics, to the supreme rank of master-general of
all the cavalry and infantry of the Roman, or at least of the Western, empire; and his enemies
confessed, that he invariably disdained to barter for gold the rewards of merit, or to defraud
the soldiers of the pay and gratifications which they deserved or claimed, from the liberality
of the state. The valor and conduct which he afterwards displayed, in the defence of Italy,
against the arms of Alaric and Radagaisus, may justify the fame of his early achievements and
in an age less attentive to the laws of honor, or of pride, the Roman generals might yield
the preeminence of rank, to the ascendant of superior genius. He lamented, and revenged, the
murder of Promotus, his rival and his friend; and the massacre of many thousands of the flying
Bastarnæ is represented by the poet as a bloody sacrifice, which the Roman Achilles offered
to the manes of another Patroclus. The virtues and victories of Stilicho deserved the hatred
of Rufinus: and the arts of calumny might have been successful if the tender and vigilant Serena
had not protected her husband against his domestic foes, whilst he vanquished in the field
the enemies of the empire. Theodosius continued to support an unworthy minister, to whose diligence
he delegated the government of the palace, and of the East; but when he marched against the
tyrant Eugenius, he associated his faithful general to the labors and glories of the civil
war; and in the last moments of his life, the dying monarch recommended to Stilicho the care
of his sons, and of the republic. The ambition and the abilities of Stilicho were not unequal
to the important trust; and he claimed the guardianship of the two empires, during the minority
of Arcadius and Honorius. The first measure of his administration, or rather of his reign,
displayed to the nations the vigor and activity of a spirit worthy to command. He passed the
Alps in the depth of winter; descended the stream of the Rhine, from the fortress of Basil
to the marshes of Batavia; reviewed the state of the garrisons; repressed the enterprises of
the Germans; and, after establishing along the banks a firm and honorable peace, returned,
with incredible speed, to the palace of Milan. The person and court of Honorius were subject
to the master-general of the West; and the armies and provinces of Europe obeyed, without hesitation,
a regular authority, which was exercised in the name of their young sovereign. Two rivals only
remained to dispute the claims, and to provoke the vengeance, of Stilicho. Within the limits
of Africa, Gildo, the Moor, maintained a proud and dangerous independence; and the minister
of Constantinople asserted his equal reign over the emperor, and the empire, of the East.

The impartiality which Stilicho affected, as the common guardian of the royal brothers, engaged
him to regulate the equal division of the arms, the jewels, and the magnificent wardrobe and
furniture of the deceased emperor. But the most important object of the inheritance consisted
of the numerous legions, cohorts, and squadrons, of Romans, or Barbarians, whom the event of
the civil war had united under the standard of Theodosius. The various multitudes of Europe
and Asia, exasperated by recent animosities, were overawed by the authority of a single man;
and the rigid discipline of Stilicho protected the lands of the citizens from the rapine of
the licentious soldier. Anxious, however, and impatient, to relieve Italy from the presence
of this formidable host, which could be useful only on the frontiers of the empire, he listened
to the just requisition of the minister of Arcadius, declared his intention of reconducting
in person the troops of the East, and dexterously employed the rumor of a Gothic tumult to
conceal his private designs of ambition and revenge. The guilty soul of Rufinus was alarmed
by the approach of a warrior and a rival, whose enmity he deserved; he computed, with increasing
terror, the narrow space of his life and greatness; and, as the last hope of safety, he interposed
the authority of the emperor Arcadius. Stilicho, who appears to have directed his march along
the sea-coast of the Adriatic, was not far distant from the city of Thessalonica, when he received
a peremptory message, to recall the troops of the East, and to declare, that his nearer approach
would be considered, by the Byzantine court, as an act of hostility. The prompt and unexpected
obedience of the general of the West, convinced the vulgar of his loyalty and moderation; and,
as he had already engaged the affection of the Eastern troops, he recommended to their zeal
the execution of his bloody design, which might be accomplished in his absence, with less danger,
perhaps, and with less reproach. Stilicho left the command of the troops of the East to Gainas,
the Goth, on whose fidelity he firmly relied, with an assurance, at least, that the hardy Barbarians
would never be diverted from his purpose by any consideration of fear or remorse. The soldiers
were easily persuaded to punish the enemy of Stilicho and of Rome; and such was the general
hatred which Rufinus had excited, that the fatal secret, communicated to thousands, was faithfully
preserved during the long march from Thessalonica to the gates of Constantinople. As soon as
they had resolved his death, they condescended to flatter his pride; the ambitious præfect
was seduced to believe, that those powerful auxiliaries might be tempted to place the diadem
on his head; and the treasures which he distributed, with a tardy and reluctant hand, were
accepted by the indignant multitude as an insult, rather than as a gift. At the distance of
a mile from the capital, in the field of Mars, before the palace of Hebdomon, the troops halted:
and the emperor, as well as his minister, advanced, according to ancient custom, respectfully
to salute the power which supported their throne. As Rufinus passed along the ranks, and disguised,
with studied courtesy, his innate haughtiness, the wings insensibly wheeled from the right
and left, and enclosed the devoted victim within the circle of their arms. Before he could
reflect on the danger of his situation, Gainas gave the signal of death; a daring and forward
soldier plunged his sword into the breast of the guilty præfect, and Rufinus fell, groaned,
and expired, at the feet of the affrighted emperor. If the agonies of a moment could expiate
the crimes of a whole life, or if the outrages inflicted on a breathless corpse could be the
object of pity, our humanity might perhaps be affected by the horrid circumstances which accompanied
the murder of Rufinus. His mangled body was abandoned to the brutal fury of the populace of
either sex, who hastened in crowds, from every quarter of the city, to trample on the remains
of the haughty minister, at whose frown they had so lately trembled. His right hand was cut
off, and carried through the streets of Constantinople, in cruel mockery, to extort contributions
for the avaricious tyrant, whose head was publicly exposed, borne aloft on the point of a long
lance. According to the savage maxims of the Greek republics, his innocent family would have
shared the punishment of his crimes. The wife and daughter of Rufinus were indebted for their
safety to the influence of religion. Her sanctuary protected them from the raging madness of
the people; and they were permitted to spend the remainder of their lives in the exercise of
Christian devotions, in the peaceful retirement of Jerusalem.

The servile poet of Stilicho applauds, with ferocious joy, this horrid deed, which, in the
execution, perhaps, of justice, violated every law of nature and society, profaned the majesty
of the prince, and renewed the dangerous examples of military license. The contemplation of
the universal order and harmony had satisfied Claudian of the existence of the Deity; but the
prosperous impunity of vice appeared to contradict his moral attributes; and the fate of Rufinus
was the only event which could dispel the religious doubts of the poet. Such an act might vindicate
the honor of Providence, but it did not much contribute to the happiness of the people. In
less than three months they were informed of the maxims of the new administration, by a singular
edict, which established the exclusive right of the treasury over the spoils of Rufinus; and
silenced, under heavy penalties, the presumptuous claims of the subjects of the Eastern empire,
who had been injured by his rapacious tyranny. Even Stilicho did not derive from the murder
of his rival the fruit which he had proposed; and though he gratified his revenge, his ambition
was disappointed. Under the name of a favorite, the weakness of Arcadius required a master,
but he naturally preferred the obsequious arts of the eunuch Eutropius, who had obtained his
domestic confidence: and the emperor contemplated, with terror and aversion, the stern genius
of a foreign warrior. Till they were divided by the jealousy of power, the sword of Gainas,
and the charms of Eudoxia, supported the favor of the great chamberlain of the palace: the
perfidious Goth, who was appointed master-general of the East, betrayed, without scruple, the
interest of his benefactor; and the same troops, who had so lately massacred the enemy of Stilicho,
were engaged to support, against him, the independence of the throne of Constantinople. The
favorites of Arcadius fomented a secret and irreconcilable war against a formidable hero, who
aspired to govern, and to defend, the two empires of Rome, and the two sons of Theodosius.
They incessantly labored, by dark and treacherous machinations, to deprive him of the esteem
of the prince, the respect of the people, and the friendship of the Barbarians. The life of
Stilicho was repeatedly attempted by the dagger of hired assassins; and a decree was obtained
from the senate of Constantinople, to declare him an enemy of the republic, and to confiscate
his ample possessions in the provinces of the East. At a time when the only hope of delaying
the ruin of the Roman name depended on the firm union, and reciprocal aid, of all the nations
to whom it had been gradually communicated, the subjects of Arcadius and Honorius were instructed,
by their respective masters, to view each other in a foreign, and even hostile, light; to rejoice
in their mutual calamities, and to embrace, as their faithful allies, the Barbarians, whom
they excited to invade the territories of their countrymen. The natives of Italy affected to
despise the servile and effeminate Greeks of Byzantium, who presumed to imitate the dress,
and to usurp the dignity, of Roman senators; and the Greeks had not yet forgot the sentiments
of hatred and contempt, which their polished ancestors had so long entertained for the rude
inhabitants of the West. The distinction of two governments, which soon produced the separation
of two nations, will justify my design of suspending the series of the Byzantine history, to
prosecute, without interruption, the disgraceful, but memorable, reign of Honorius.

The prudent Stilicho, instead of persisting to force the inclinations of a prince, and people,
who rejected his government, wisely abandoned Arcadius to his unworthy favorites; and his reluctance
to involve the two empires in a civil war displayed the moderation of a minister, who had so
often signalized his military spirit and abilities. But if Stilicho had any longer endured
the revolt of Africa, he would have betrayed the security of the capital, and the majesty of
the Western emperor, to the capricious insolence of a Moorish rebel. Gildo, the brother of
the tyrant Firmus, had preserved and obtained, as the reward of his apparent fidelity, the
immense patrimony which was forfeited by treason: long and meritorious service, in the armies
of Rome, raised him to the dignity of a military count; the narrow policy of the court of Theodosius
had adopted the mischievous expedient of supporting a legal government by the interest of a
powerful family; and the brother of Firmus was invested with the command of Africa. His ambition
soon usurped the administration of justice, and of the finances, without account, and without
control; and he maintained, during a reign of twelve years, the possession of an office, from
which it was impossible to remove him, without the danger of a civil war. During those twelve
years, the provinces of Africa groaned under the dominion of a tyrant, who seemed to unite
the unfeeling temper of a stranger with the partial resentments of domestic faction. The forms
of law were often superseded by the use of poison; and if the trembling guests, who were invited
to the table of Gildo, presumed to express fears, the insolent suspicion served only to excite
his fury, and he loudly summoned the ministers of death. Gildo alternately indulged the passions
of avarice and lust; and if his days were terrible to the rich, his nights were not less dreadful
to husbands and parents. The fairest of their wives and daughters were prostituted to the embraces
of the tyrant; and afterwards abandoned to a ferocious troop of Barbarians and assassins, the
black, or swarthy, natives of the desert; whom Gildo considered as the only of his throne.
In the civil war between Theodosius and Eugenius, the count, or rather the sovereign, of Africa,
maintained a haughty and suspicious neutrality; refused to assist either of the contending
parties with troops or vessels, expected the declaration of fortune, and reserved for the conqueror
the vain professions of his allegiance. Such professions would not have satisfied the master
of the Roman world; but the death of Theodosius, and the weakness and discord of his sons,
confirmed the power of the Moor; who condescended, as a proof of his moderation, to abstain
from the use of the diadem, and to supply Rome with the customary tribute, or rather subsidy,
of corn. In every division of the empire, the five provinces of Africa were invariably assigned
to the West; and Gildo had to govern that extensive country in the name of Honorius, but his
knowledge of the character and designs of Stilicho soon engaged him to address his homage to
a more distant and feeble sovereign. The ministers of Arcadius embraced the cause of a perfidious
rebel; and the delusive hope of adding the numerous cities of Africa to the empire of the East,
tempted them to assert a claim, which they were incapable of supporting, either by reason or
by arms.

When Stilicho had given a firm and decisive answer to the pretensions of the Byzantine court,
he solemnly accused the tyrant of Africa before the tribunal, which had formerly judged the
kings and nations of the earth; and the image of the republic was revived, after a long interval,
under the reign of Honorius. The emperor transmitted an accurate and ample detail of the complaints
of the provincials, and the crimes of Gildo, to the Roman senate; and the members of that venerable
assembly were required to pronounce the condemnation of the rebel. Their unanimous suffrage
declared him the enemy of the republic; and the decree of the senate added a sacred and legitimate
sanction to the Roman arms. A people, who still remembered that their ancestors had been the
masters of the world, would have applauded, with conscious pride, the representation of ancient
freedom; if they had not since been accustomed to prefer the solid assurance of bread to the
unsubstantial visions of liberty and greatness. The subsistence of Rome depended on the harvests
of Africa; and it was evident, that a declaration of war would be the signal of famine. The
præfect Symmachus, who presided in the deliberations of the senate, admonished the minister
of his just apprehension, that as soon as the revengeful Moor should prohibit the exportation
of corn, the and perhaps the safety, of the capital would be threatened by the hungry rage
of a turbulent multitude. The prudence of Stilicho conceived and executed, without delay, the
most effectual measure for the relief of the Roman people. A large and seasonable supply of
corn, collected in the inland provinces of Gaul, was embarked on the rapid stream of the Rhone,
and transported, by an easy navigation, from the Rhone to the Tyber. During the whole term
of the African war, the granaries of Rome were continually filled, her dignity was vindicated
from the humiliating dependence, and the minds of an immense people were quieted by the calm
confidence of peace and plenty.

The cause of Rome, and the conduct of the African war, were intrusted by Stilicho to a general,
active and ardent to avenge his private injuries on the head of the tyrant. The spirit of discord
which prevailed in the house of Nabal, had excited a deadly quarrel between two of his sons,
Gildo and Mascezel. The usurper pursued, with implacable rage, the life of his younger brother,
whose courage and abilities he feared; and Mascezel, oppressed by superior power, refuge in
the court of Milan, where he soon received the cruel intelligence that his two innocent and
helpless children had been murdered by their inhuman uncle. The affliction of the father was
suspended only by the desire of revenge. The vigilant Stilicho already prepared to collect
the naval and military force of the Western empire; and he had resolved, if the tyrant should
be able to wage an equal and doubtful war, to march against him in person. But as Italy required
his presence, and as it might be dangerous to weaken the of the frontier, he judged it more
advisable, that Mascezel should attempt this arduous adventure at the head of a chosen body
of Gallic veterans, who had lately served exhorted to convince the world that they could subvert,
as well as defend the throne of a usurper, consisted of the Jovian, the Herculian, and the
Augustan legions; of the Nervian auxiliaries; of the soldiers who displayed in their banners
the symbol of a lion, and of the troops which were distinguished by the auspicious names of
Fortunate, and Invincible. Yet such was the smallness of their establishments, or the difficulty
of recruiting, that these seven bands, of high dignity and reputation in the service of Rome,
amounted to no more than five thousand effective men. The fleet of galleys and transports sailed
in tempestuous weather from the port of Pisa, in Tuscany, and steered their course to the little
island of Capraria; which had borrowed that name from the wild goats, its original inhabitants,
whose place was occupied by a new colony of a strange and savage appearance. "The whole island
(says an ingenious traveller of those times) is filled, or rather defiled, by men who fly from
the light. They call themselves Monks, or solitaries, because they choose to live alone, without
any witnesses of their actions. They fear the gifts of fortune, from the apprehension of losing
them; and, lest they should be miserable, they embrace a life of voluntary wretchedness. How
absurd is their choice! how perverse their understanding! to dread the evils, without being
able to support the blessings, of the human condition. Either this melancholy madness is the
effect of disease, or exercise on their own bodies the tortures which are inflicted on fugitive
slaves by the hand of justice." Such was the contempt of a profane magistrate for the monks
as the chosen servants of God. Some of them were persuaded, by his entreaties, to embark on
board the fleet; and it is observed, to the praise of the Roman general, that his days and
nights were employed in prayer, fasting, and the occupation of singing psalms. The devout leader,
who, with such a reenforcement, appeared confident of victory, avoided the dangerous rocks
of Corsica, coasted along the eastern side of Sardinia, and secured his ships against the violence
of the south wind, by casting anchor in the and capacious harbor of Cagliari, at the distance
of one hundred and forty miles from the African shores.

Gildo was prepared to resist the invasion with all the forces of Africa. By the liberality
of his gifts and promises, he endeavored to secure the doubtful allegiance of the Roman soldiers,
whilst he attracted to his standard the distant tribes of Gætulia and Æthiopia. He proudly
reviewed an army of seventy thousand men, and boasted, with the rash presumption which is the
forerunner of disgrace, that his numerous cavalry would trample under their horses' feet the
troops of Mascezel, and involve, in a cloud of burning sand, the natives of the cold regions
of Gaul and Germany. But the Moor, who commanded the legions of Honorius, was too well acquainted
with the manners of his countrymen, to entertain any serious apprehension of a naked and disorderly
host of Barbarians; whose left arm, instead of a shield, was protected only by mantle; who
were totally disarmed as soon as they had darted their javelin from their right hand; and whose
horses had never He fixed his camp of five thousand veterans in the face of a superior enemy,
and, after the delay of three days, gave the signal of a general engagement. As Mascezel advanced
before the front with fair offers of peace and pardon, he encountered one of the foremost standard-bearers
of the Africans, and, on his refusal to yield, struck him on the arm with his sword. The arm,
and the standard, sunk under the weight of the blow; and the imaginary act of submission was
hastily repeated by all the standards of the line. At this the disaffected cohorts proclaimed
the name of their lawful sovereign; the Barbarians, astonished by the defection of their Roman
allies, dispersed, according to their custom, in tumultuary flight; and Mascezel obtained the
of an easy, and almost bloodless, victory. The tyrant escaped from the field of battle to the
sea-shore; and threw himself into a small vessel, with the hope of reaching in safety some
friendly port of the empire of the East; but the obstinacy of the wind drove him back into
the harbor of Tabraca, which had acknowledged, with the rest of the province, the dominion
of Honorius, and the authority of his lieutenant. The inhabitants, as a proof of their repentance
and loyalty, seized and confined the person of Gildo in a dungeon; and his own despair saved
him from the intolerable torture of supporting the presence of an injured and victorious brother.
The captives and the spoils of Africa were laid at the feet of the emperor; but more sincere,
in the midst of prosperity, still affected to consult the laws of the republic; and referred
to the senate and people of Rome the judgment of the most illustrious criminals. Their trial
was public and solemn; but the judges, in the exercise of this obsolete and precarious jurisdiction,
were impatient to punish the African magistrates, who had intercepted the subsistence of the
Roman people. The rich and guilty province was oppressed by the Imperial ministers, who had
a visible interest to multiply the number of the accomplices of Gildo; and if an edict of Honorius
seems to check the malicious industry of informers, a subsequent edict, at the distance of
ten years, continues and renews the prosecution of the which had been committed in the time
of the general rebellion. The adherents of the tyrant who escaped the first fury of the soldiers,
and the judges, might derive some consolation from the tragic fate of his brother, who could
never obtain his pardon for the extraordinary services which he had performed. After he had
finished an important war in the space of a single winter, Mascezel was received at the court
of Milan with loud applause, affected gratitude, and secret jealousy; and his death, which,
perhaps, was the effect of passage of a bridge, the Moorish prince, who accompanied the master-general
of the West, was suddenly thrown from his horse into the river; the officious haste of the
attendants was on the countenance of Stilicho; and while they delayed the necessary assistance,
the unfortunate Mascezel was irrecoverably drowned.

The joy of the African triumph was happily connected with the nuptials of the emperor Honorius,
and of his cousin Maria, the daughter of Stilicho: and this equal and honorable alliance seemed
to invest the powerful minister with the authority of a parent over his submissive pupil. The
muse of Claudian was not silent on this propitious day; he sung, in various and lively strains,
the happiness of the royal pair; and the glory of the hero, who confirmed their union, and
supported their throne. The ancient fables of Greece, which had almost ceased to be the object
of religious faith, were saved from oblivion by the genius of poetry. The picture of the Cyprian
grove, the seat of harmony and love; the triumphant progress of Venus over her native seas,
and the mild influence which her presence diffused in the palace of Milan, express to every
age the natural sentiments of the heart, in the just and pleasing language of allegorical fiction.
But the amorous impatience which Claudian attributes to the young prince, must excite the smiles
of the court; and his beauteous spouse (if she deserved the praise of beauty) had not much
to fear or to hope from the passions of her lover. Honorius was only in the fourteenth year
of his age; Serena, the mother of his bride, deferred, by art of persuasion, the consummation
of the royal nuptials; Maria died a virgin, after she had been ten years a wife; and the chastity
of the emperor was secured by the coldness, perhaps, the debility, of his constitution. His
subjects, who attentively studied the character of their young sovereign, discovered that Honorius
was without passions, and consequently without talents; and that his feeble and languid disposition
was alike incapable of discharging the duties of his rank, or of enjoying the pleasures of
his age. In his early youth he made some progress in the exercises of riding and drawing the
bow: but he soon relinquished these fatiguing occupations, and the amusement of feeding poultry
became the serious and daily care of the monarch of the West, who resigned the reins of empire
to the firm and skilful hand of his guardian Stilicho. The experience of history will countenance
the suspicion that a prince who was born in the purple, received a worse education than the
meanest peasant of his dominions; and that the ambitious minister suffered him to attain the
age of manhood, without attempting to excite his courage, or to enlighten his under standing.
The predecessors of Honorius were accustomed to animate by their example, or at least by their
presence, the valor of the legions; and the dates of their laws attest the perpetual activity
of their motions through the provinces of the Roman world. But the son of Theodosius passed
the slumber of his life, a captive in his palace, a stranger in his country, and the patient,
almost the indifferent, spectator of the ruin of the Western empire, which was repeatedly attacked,
and finally subverted, by the arms of the Barbarians. In the eventful history of a reign of
twenty-eight years, it will seldom be necessary to mention the name of the emperor Honorius.

Chapter XXX: Revolt Of The Goths.--Part I.

     Revolt Of The Goths.--They Plunder Greece.--Two Great
     Invasions Of Italy By Alaric And Radagaisus.--They Are
     Repulsed By Stilicho.--The Germans Overrun Gaul.--Usurpation
     Of Constantine In The West.--Disgrace And Death Of Stilicho.

If the subjects of Rome could be ignorant of their obligations to the great Theodosius, they
were too soon convinced, how painfully the spirit and abilities of their deceased emperor had
supported the frail and mouldering edifice of the republic. He died in the month of January;
and before the end of the winter of the same year, the Gothic nation was in arms. The interruption,
or at least the diminution, of the subsidy, which the Goths had received from the prudent liberality
of Theodosius, was the specious pretence of their revolt: the affront was imbittered by their
contempt for the unwarlike sons of Theodosius; and their resentment was inflamed by the weakness,
or treachery, of the minister of Arcadius. The frequent visits of Rufinus to the camp of the
Barbarians whose arms and apparel he affected to imitate, were considered as a sufficient evidence
of his guilty correspondence, and the public enemy, from a motive either of gratitude or of
policy, was attentive, amidst the general devastation, to spare the private estates of the
unpopular præfect. The Goths, instead of being impelled by the blind and headstrong passions
of their chiefs, were now directed by the bold and artful genius of Alaric. That renowned leader
was descended from the noble race of the Balti; which yielded only to the royal dignity of
the Amali: he had solicited the command of the Roman armies; and the Imperial court provoked
him to demonstrate the folly of their refusal, and the importance of their loss. Whatever hopes
might be entertained of the conquest of Constantinople, the judicious general soon abandoned
an impracticable enterprise.

The character of the civil and military officers, on whom Rufinus had devolved the government
of Greece, confirmed the public suspicion, that he had betrayed the ancient seat of freedom
and learning to the Gothic invader. The proconsul Antiochus was the unworthy son of a respectable
father; and Gerontius, who commanded the provincial troops, was much better qualified to execute
the oppressive orders of a tyrant, than to defend, with courage and ability, a country most
remarkably fortified by the hand of nature. Alaric had traversed, without resistance, the plains
of Macedonia and Thessaly, as far as the foot of Mount Oeta, a steep and woody range of hills,
almost impervious to his cavalry. They stretched from east to west, to the edge of the sea-shore;
and left, between the precipice and the Malian Gulf, an interval of three hundred feet, which,
in some places, was contracted to a road capable of admitting only a single carriage. In this
narrow pass of Thermopylæ, where Leonidas and the three hundred Spartans had gloriously devoted
their lives, the Goths might have been stopped, or destroyed, by a skilful general; and perhaps
the view of that sacred spot might have kindled some sparks of military ardor in the breasts
of the degenerate Greeks. The same impatience urged him to prevent the delay and danger of
a siege, by the offer of a capitulation; and as soon as the Athenians heard the voice of the
Gothic herald, they were easily persuaded to deliver the greatest part of their wealth, as
the ransom of the city of Minerva and its inhabitants. The treaty was ratified by solemn oaths,
and observed with mutual fidelity. The Gothic prince, with a small and select train, was admitted
within the walls; he indulged himself in the refreshment of the bath, accepted a splendid banquet,
which was provided by the magistrate, and affected to show that he was not ignorant of the
manners of civilized nations. The distance between Megara and Corinth could not much exceed
thirty miles; but the bad road, an expressive name, which it still bears among the Greeks,
was, or might easily have been made, impassable for the march of an enemy. Why had not the way here
with the heater on a detailed war plan discussed, instead, as they had done in reality it simply hopelessly
unprepared to enter where the door was? Could the heater even talk at all, say yes and no, as in
the cross-examination, which at best, only imminent but would be required? He stood there, his legs set
apart, knees slightly bent one, raised his head slightly and the air through the open mouth,
as if there were no inside lungs, which they processed. Karl, however, felt so strong and sane,
as he perhaps had never been at home.

If he could just see his parents, as a foreign country, before respected individuals championed in the
good and even if he had not yet brought it victory, then at the last conquest perfectly ready made! If
they revise their opinion of him? Him to sit down between and praise? He once again in the humble
eyes see them like that? Unsafe questions and inappropriate moment to make them! "I come because
I believe that I am any fireman accused of dishonesty. A girl from the kitchen told me she had
seen him on the way here.

Captain and all of you gentlemen, I am ready to charge on the basis of my writings, if necessary,
by an impartial and unprejudiced witness statements, prior to the stand to rebut any door. "Schubal
spoke. But this was the clear words of a man and after the change in the faces of the audience one
might have thought they heard for the first time after a long time human sounds. They noted not to say
that even this fine speech had holes. Why was the first substantive word that he remembered dishonesty
"? Might have been the charge used here must be held at its national bias? A girl from the kitchen had firemen
on their way to the office and saw the Schubal had immediately understood? Was it not the consciousness
of guilt, which he sharpened his mind? And witnesses he had brought along and called them yet also
unbiased and unaffected? Ripoff, nothing but ripoff! And the men tolerate this and it still recognized
as proper behavior? Why he had plenty of time between notification of the kitchen girl, and his
arrival here elapse be much doubt, but for no other purpose than that of the firemen the men
so tiring that they gradually clear discernment lost her, especially to fear Schubal who had?
Had he, who had been standing behind the door was certainly long, not only at the moment a knock,
as he hoped Mr marginal question that the result was, the heater
was done? Everything was clear and was even reluctant to Schubal presented
in such a well, But the men had to put it another, more palpable tell.
They needed shakeup.

So Karl, quick, profitable now, at least from the time before the witnesses appear, and all flood! But
just waved the captain from the Schubal, which then immediately -
because his case seemed to be postponed for a little while - and stepped
aside with the servant that he had just joined, began a quiet conversation,
in which it after the heater and Karl as well as the staunchest hand
movements were not wanting to side glances.

Schubal
seemed next big speech to practice his own. "Did not the young people something to ask you,
Mr. Jacob said? The captain, under the overall silence of the Lord with the bamboo cane." Certainly,
"said the latter, with a little passion for the attention thanks.

And Charles then asked again: "What is your name?" Charles, who thought it was mainly located
in the interests of the great, if this incident would soon be done the persistent questioner
replied, in short, without, as was his habit, by presentation of the passport to imagine that
he would only have to look, "Karl Rossmann." But, "said" the person addressed to Jacob and came
back almost at first incredulous smile.

Even the captain, the chief purser, the ship's officers, even the servants were clearly excessive astonishment
because Karl's name.

Only the Lords of the port authority and Schubal remained indifferent. "But," said Mr. Jacob, and was
somewhat stiffly on with Karl, "then I'm your Uncle Jacob and you
are my dear nephew.

I guessed it but the whole time, "he said to the captain out, before he hugged and kissed Karl, who made
everything happen in silence." What is your name? "Said Charles, after he felt released, although very
polite, but totally unmoved, and sought to foresee the consequences
of that event for the new heaters have expected this.

For the time being there was no indication that Schubal thing could benefit from this. "Do you
understand yet, young man, your luck," said the captain, by question the dignity of the person
of Mr. Jacob believed violated the Charles, who made the window had, apparently, to his excited face
he also dabbed with a handkerchief, others do not have to show.

"It is Senator Edward Jacob, who as you know your uncle has given himself. You can expect now,
but probably quite contrary to your previous expectations, a brilliant career. Try to view this, well
it does at first, and pull yourself together!

"But I have an uncle James in America," said Charles to Captain turned, "but if I have understood right,
is Jacob only the surname of Mr. Senator." "Absolutely," said the captain forward. "Well, my uncle
James, who's brother mother is my words, but with the Jacob Christian name as his surname, of
course, immediately my mother would have to be that which is born
Bendelmayer one.

"Gentlemen," cried the Senator, the rest of his post by the window cheerfully returning from,
relating to declaration of Charles with. All, except for port officials, broke out laughing in, some
as emotion, some impenetrable. Ridiculous "was what I had said, but by no means," thought Charles.
"Gentlemen," repeated the senator, "take against my will and against your will on a small family scene
part and I can not decline explanation to give one to you, because, as I believe only the captain "- mention
was this a mutual reverence for the consequence -" is taught in full.

"Now I must really every word to take care of," said Karl, and rejoiced when he one Seitwärtsschauen
noticed in that in the figure of the heater life return to the beginning.

"I all have been living for the long years of my American visit -
the word stay fit here, but bad for the American people, whom I soul'm
with - since all the long years I have lived so of my European relatives
separated completely, for reasons which here does not cover first,
and tell the second to me hernehmen really too much would.

I am afraid even before the moment when I will be forced, perhaps, they love to tell my nephew, and,
unfortunately, a speak frankly about his parents and their followers will be unavoidable. "It
is my uncle, no doubt," Karl said to himself, and listened, "he probably
can change his name."

"My dear nephew is now on his parents - we only say the word that the thing really well known - beiseitegeschafft
just been just a cat at the door throws when she gets angry. I do not entirely gloss over what
has made my nephew that he was punished so, but the fault is such
that his simple call already contains enough excuse.

"It is worth listening to," thought Karl "But I do not think he tells
it all.

By the way, he can not even know. From where? "He was, namely," continued Uncle continued the, and
supported himself with small inclinations to him openwork from bamboo sticks, which it actually
succeeded, the unnecessary ceremony to take the thing that they necessarily would have had otherwise, "he's
was set up by a maid, Johanna Brummer, 35 years approximately one
person seduced.

I want the word "seduced by" my nephew does not quite hurt, but it's hard, just the right word
to find another one. "Karl, quite to his uncle entered was close already, turned around here
the impression of narrative of the faces of those present to read.

No one laughed, everyone listened patiently and sincerely. Finally, we laugh not at the nephew
of a senator at the first opportunity which presents itself. Rather would be able to say
already that the heater, if only very slightly, Karl smiled, but this first new sign of life
enjoyable and as a second excuse was, since Karl in the cabin of this thing, so public was now
a special Mystery had wanted to make. "Now this has Brummer," continued the uncle continued, "my
nephew have a baby of a healthy boy, who received the baptism in the name of Jacob, no doubt thinking of
my humble self, which, even in the sure only a trivial mentions of
my nephew, made a great impression on the girl must have.

Fortunately, I say. For as the parents to avoid child support payments or any other as far as
they themselves heranreichenden scandals - and I know how stressed
I have to, neither local law nor the other circumstances of the parents
- as they so to avoid alimony payments and the scandal, her son, my
dear nephew, America has to be transported, with irresponsible rudimentary
equipment, as you can see, it would be the young, without the just
in America living sign and wonder to themselves depend, probably even
the same in an alley in the Port of New York degenerate, if not that,
a maid in a am directed to radio, the long wanderings yesterday in
my possession came to me the whole story and physical description
of my nephew and also the ship informed would Attribution reasonably.

If I am to have installed it, you, my Gentlemen, to entertain, I could probably points of the letter
"a few - he drew two huge, closely written sheet of paper from his pocket and waving it -" Read this
here. It would certainly make impact, as it with a somewhat simple but always well-meaning
cunning and written with much love for the father of the child. But I will not talk more than
is necessary for enlightenment, or perhaps even to receive any remaining
feelings of my nephew might violate the letter, if he likes, in the
quiet of his room to give instructions to read it can be expected
already.

" Charles had no feelings for that girl. In the crush of an ever-receding past, she sat in
her kitchen next to the kitchen cabinet, on whose board she leaned
her elbows.

She looked at him when he returned to the kitchen and came back to return to the water for his
father to fetch a glass or on behalf of his mother's host one. Sometimes they wrote in the tricky position
of either side of the cupboard and fetched a letter from the suggestions of Charles's face. Sometimes she kept
her eyes covered with his hand, then urged not to address it. Sometimes she knelt in her tight little
room off the kitchen and prayed to a wooden cross, Karl watched with
awe and then only in passing through the column of a slightly open
door.

Sometimes they drove around in the kitchen and went back, laughing like a witch, when Charles
came in her way. Sometimes they shut the kitchen door, if Charles had entered and retained as
long as the handle in his hand, he wanted to go away. Sometimes they took the things he does
not have wanted to do, and pressed it silently into her hands. But once she said "Karl," and
led him, still astonished at the unexpected response, including grimacing, sighing in her little
room, they locked the door. Choking his neck and hugged her while she begged him to undress
her, she undressed him and laid it in reality in her bed when she
wanted him more from now and no one can stroke him and care for until
the end of the world.

"Karl, Karl O thou," she cried, when they saw him and confirm his possession, not least as he saw it
and at ease in all the warm bedding felt that they seemed to have piled up for him specifically.
Then she got even with him and wanted him to know of any secrets, but he could tell her no and she was
annoyed in jest or earnest, shook it, listened from his heart, offered the same chest auscultation
out their what they but Karl could not bring her bare belly pressed against
his body, searching by hand, so disgusting, that Charles and neck from
the pillows out shaking his head between his legs, then poked the belly
a few times against him, he felt as if she was a part of himself and perhaps
for this reason it had taken a terrible need for help. Weeping, he came at
last after many requests for its part again in his bed. That had been
all but knew his uncle, a great story to make it. And so the cook had
thought to him and informed the uncle of his arrival. That was it traded
well and he would repay her once comfortable. "And now," cried the
Senator, "I will openly listen to whether I am your uncle or not."
You are my uncle, "said karl kissed his hand and was kissed on the forehead for
that.

"I am very glad that I met you, but you're wrong if you think that parents
only talk bad about you mean. But even apart from the errors in your
speech some have been included, that is, I mean, it has not in fact
everything happened.

You can also really from here, things so well judged, and I also believe that it claims will
bring particular not if the gentlemen in the details of a case in which they really do not lie
to much yet, an incorrect informed little been "are." Well spoken, "said the Senator, Karl led before
the participating obviously captain and asked," Have I not a beautiful nephew? "I'm happy,"
said the captain with a bow, as military training only incapacitated
people, "your nephew, Mr. Senator, have learned to know.

It is an honor for my boat, that such a meeting could make the place. But the trip in steerage
was probably very bad, so, who can then know who is carried there. Well, we do everything possible
in the steerage the trip as possible to facilitate people to much more, for example, when the American
lines, but driving a pleasure to make such, we have made but not yet. "It has given me not harmed,
"said Karl." It has not hurt him, "repeated the senator laughed loudly." Just my case I'm afraid
- lost "and that he remembered everything that had happened and what remained to be done, saw
around and saw all those present dumb with astonishment and respect to their former places, the eyes
fixed on him. Only the port officials were seen as far as her strict, self-satisfied faces insight
allowed, the regret at one time has come to be inconvenient to so and watch, they are available
had now, they were probably more important than anything in the room was going on and maybe could
still happen. The first, the captain expressed his sympathy for, oddly enough, was the fireman.
"I congratulate you heartily," he said, shaking the hand of Charles, which he wanted to express something
like recognition too. When he the same speech also wanted to consult with the Senator then drew
back, as exceeds the heater so that his rights, the heater was immediately too. The other
one but saw now what was done and were just around the Charles and Senator a mess. Thus it
was that Charles received a congratulatory Schubal even took it and thanked him for. As a final
peace came in the back caused port officials added the and said two words in English, what ridiculous
impression one. The senator was quite in the mood to fully savor, to minor moments, and the other in
memory to bring the pleasure, which of course all not be tolerated, but only with unacceptable was of interest.
He pointed out that he was the cook of the most prominent sign of recognition of letters of Charles mentioned
in his note-book may be a necessary immediate use was registered in itself. Now he had during
the unbearable chatter of the heater for any purpose other than to distract, pulled out the notebook
and not just detective correct observations of the appearance of Charles Cook with the game
in conjunction to bring the course looking for. "And so we find his nephew," he concluded in
a tone as if he would once again receive congratulations. "What
will now happen to the firemen," asked Charles, past the last story
of the uncle.

He believed in his new position, all what he thought, also can pronounce
on.

"The heater is done, what he deserves," said the Senator, "and what the captain well considered.
I think we have enough and to the heater, which I certainly agree with all the gentlemen present.
Is the "Then it comes from but not, in a matter of justice," said
Karl.

He stood between his uncle and the captain, and believed that through
this position might affect the decision to have in hand.

And
yet the heater seemed nothing more to hope for themselves. He kept his hands in the trouser
belt half, the excited movements of the strip of patterned shirt had come to light through his. took
care of him in not the least, he had complained of his suffering, all should now be the one nor the
few scraps also see the body he had on, and then you should carry him off. He thought of himself,
the servant and Schubal, as the two here in the deepest range, should this last kindness prove
it. Schubal would then have peace and more in despair come not, as the chief purser had expressed.
The captain would do nothing to Romanians, Romanian, it would be
spoken everywhere, and maybe then everything would go better really.

No heater
would be more the main ticket talk in just his last talk would be quite a friendly reminder to
keep in, since, as the senator had explicitly stated cause for the
detection of the nephew had given indirect the.

This nephew had his way, to use more often before searched and therefore for his service in the recognition,
long before, paid a more than sufficient thanks, the heater was not even one, nor of him to
ask for something now. Moreover, he may be the nephew of the senator, a captain, he was still
a long way, but the lips of the captain would eventually fall out of the bad word. - Just as it was
consistent with its opinion, the fireman tried not to look at Karl, Unfortunately, however, remained
in the room of enemies no other resting place for his eyes. "misunderstand the situation is not,"
said the Senator to Karl, "it is perhaps a matter of justice, but
also a matter of discipline.

Both are entirely particularly the latter, are the assessment of
the Lord's captain.

"It is so," murmured the heater. Those who saw and understood, smiled
coldly.

"But we also have the Lord Captain of his official duties, which is surely the arrival in New York
incredibly accumulate at even, already hampered much that it's time for us is high, the ship ,
to leave plenty even by some highly unnecessary interference this minor squabble between two engineers
to an event not to make the.
 The magnificent spoils of Corinth and Argos enriched
the veterans of the West; the captive wife of Alaric, who had impatiently claimed his promise
of Roman jewels and Patrician handmaids, was reduced to implore the mercy of the insulting
foe; and many thousand prisoners, released from the Gothic chains, dispersed through the provinces
of Italy the praises of their heroic deliverer. The triumph of Stilicho was compared by the
poet, and perhaps by the public, to that of Marius; who, in the same part of Italy, had encountered
and destroyed another army of Northern Barbarians. The huge bones, and the empty helmets, of
the Cimbri and of the Goths, would easily be confounded by succeeding generations; and posterity
might erect a common trophy to the memory of the two most illustrious generals, who had vanquished,
on the same memorable ground, the two most formidable enemies of Rome.

The eloquence of Claudian has celebrated, with lavish applause, the victory of Pollentia, one
of the most glorious days in the life of his patron; but his reluctant and partial muse bestows
more genuine praise on the character of the Gothic king. His name is, indeed, branded with
the reproachful epithets of pirate and robber, to which the conquerors of every age are so
justly entitled; but the poet of Stilicho is compelled to acknowledge that Alaric possessed
the invincible temper of mind, which rises superior to every misfortune, and derives new resources
from adversity. After the total defeat of his infantry, he escaped, or rather withdrew, from
the field of battle, with the greatest part of his cavalry entire and unbroken. Without wasting
a moment to lament the irreparable loss of so many brave companions, he left his victorious
enemy to bind in chains the captive images of a Gothic king; and boldly resolved to break through
the unguarded passes of the Apennine, to spread desolation over the fruitful face of Tuscany,
and to conquer or die before the gates of Rome. The capital was saved by the active and incessant
diligence of Stilicho; but he respected the despair of his enemy; and, instead of committing
the fate of the republic to the chance of another battle, he proposed to purchase the absence
of the Barbarians. The spirit of Alaric would have rejected such terms, the permission of a
retreat, and the offer of a pension, with contempt and indignation; but he exercised a limited
and precarious authority over the independent chieftains who had raised him, for their service,
above the rank of his equals; they were still less disposed to follow an unsuccessful general,
and many of them were tempted to consult their interest by a private negotiation with the minister
of Honorius. The king submitted to the voice of his people, ratified the treaty with the empire
of the West, and repassed the Po with the remains of the flourishing army which he had led
into Italy. A considerable part of the Roman forces still continued to attend his motions;
and Stilicho, who maintained a secret correspondence with some of the Barbarian chiefs, was
punctually apprised of the designs that were formed in the camp and council of Alaric. The
king of the Goths, ambitious to signalize his retreat by some splendid achievement, had resolved
to occupy the important city of Verona, which commands the principal passage of the Rhætian
Alps; and, directing his march through the territories of those German tribes, whose alliance
would restore his exhausted strength, to invade, on the side of the Rhine, the wealthy and
unsuspecting provinces of Gaul. Ignorant of the treason which had already betrayed his bold
and judicious enterprise, he advanced towards the passes of the mountains, already possessed
by the Imperial troops; where he was exposed, almost at the same instant, to a general attack
in the front, on his flanks, and in the rear. In this bloody action, at a small distance from
the walls of Verona, the loss of the Goths was not less heavy than that which they had sustained
in the defeat of Pollentia; and their valiant king, who escaped by the swiftness of his horse,
must either have been slain or made prisoner, if the hasty rashness of the Alani had not disappointed
the measures of the Roman general. Alaric secured the remains of his army on the adjacent rocks;
and prepared himself, with undaunted resolution, to maintain a siege against the superior numbers
of the enemy, who invested him on all sides. But he could not oppose the destructive progress
of hunger and disease; nor was it possible for him to check the continual desertion of his
impatient and capricious Barbarians. In this extremity he still found resources in his own
courage, or in the moderation of his adversary; and the retreat of the Gothic king was considered
as the deliverance of Italy. Yet the people, and even the clergy, incapable of forming any
rational judgment of the business of peace and war, presumed to arraign the policy of Stilicho,
who so often vanquished, so often surrounded, and so often dismissed the implacable enemy of
the republic. The first moment of the public safety is devoted to gratitude and joy; but the
second is diligently occupied by envy and calumny.

The citizens of Rome had been astonished by the approach of Alaric; and the diligence with
which they labored to restore the walls of the capital, confessed their own fears, and the
decline of the empire. After the retreat of the Barbarians, Honorius was directed to accept
the dutiful invitation of the senate, and to celebrate, in the Imperial city, the auspicious
æra of the Gothic victory, and of his sixth consulship. The suburbs and the streets, from the
Milvian bridge to the Palatine mount, were filled by the Roman people, who, in the space of
a hundred years, had only thrice been honored with the presence of their sovereigns. While
their eyes were fixed on the chariot where Stilicho was deservedly seated by the side of his
royal pupil, they applauded the pomp of a triumph, which was not stained, like that of Constantine,
or of Theodosius, with civil blood. The procession passed under a lofty arch, which had been
purposely erected: but in less than seven years, the Gothic conquerors of Rome might read,
if they were able to read, the superb inscription of that monument, which attested the total
defeat and destruction of their nation. The emperor resided several months in the capital,
and every part of his behavior was regulated with care to conciliate the affection of the clergy,
the senate, and the people of Rome. The clergy was edified by his frequent visits and liberal
gifts to the shrines of the apostles. The senate, who, in the triumphal procession, had been
excused from the humiliating ceremony of preceding on foot the Imperial chariot, was treated
with the decent reverence which Stilicho always affected for that assembly. The people was
repeatedly gratified by the attention and courtesy of Honorius in the public games, which were
celebrated on that occasion with a magnificence not unworthy of the spectator. As soon as the
appointed number of chariot-races was concluded, the decoration of the Circus was suddenly
changed; the hunting of wild beasts afforded a various and splendid entertainment; and the
chase was succeeded by a military dance, which seems, in the lively description of Claudian,
to present the image of a modern tournament.

In these games of Honorius, the inhuman combats of gladiators polluted, for the last time,
the amphitheater of Rome. The first Christian emperor may claim the honor of the first edict
which condemned the art and amusement of shedding human blood; but this benevolent law expressed
the wishes of the prince, without reforming an inveterate abuse, which degraded a civilized
nation below the condition of savage cannibals. Several hundred, perhaps several thousand,
victims were annually slaughtered in the great cities of the empire; and the month of December,
more peculiarly devoted to the combats of gladiators, still exhibited to the eyes of the Roman
people a grateful spectacle of blood and cruelty. Amidst the general joy of the victory of
Pollentia, a Christian poet exhorted the emperor to extirpate, by his authority, the horrid
custom which had so long resisted the voice of humanity and religion. The pathetic representations
of Prudentius were less effectual than the generous boldness of Telemachus, and Asiatic monk,
whose death was more useful to mankind than his life. The Romans were provoked by the interruption
of their pleasures; and the rash monk, who had descended into the arena to separate the gladiators,
was overwhelmed under a shower of stones. But the madness of the people soon subsided; they
respected the memory of Telemachus, who had deserved the honors of martyrdom; and they submitted,
without a murmur, to the laws of Honorius, which abolished forever the human sacrifices of
the amphitheater. The citizens, who adhered to the manners of their ancestors, might perhaps
insinuate that the last remains of a martial spirit were preserved in this school of fortitude,
which accustomed the Romans to the sight of blood, and to the contempt of death; a vain and
cruel prejudice, so nobly confuted by the valor of ancient Greece, and of modern Europe!

The recent danger, to which the person of the emperor had been exposed in the defenceless palace
of Milan, urged him to seek a retreat in some inaccessible fortress of Italy, where he might
securely remain, while the open country was covered by a deluge of Barbarians. On the coast
of the Adriatic, about ten or twelve miles from the most southern of the seven mouths of the
Po, the Thessalians had founded the ancient colony of Ravenna, which they afterwards resigned
to the natives of Umbria. Augustus, who had observed the opportunity of the place, prepared,
at the distance of three miles from the old town, a capacious harbor, for the reception of
two hundred and fifty ships of war. This naval establishment, which included the arsenals and
magazines, the barracks of the troops, and the houses of the artificers, derived its origin
and name from the permanent station of the Roman fleet; the intermediate space was soon filled
with buildings and inhabitants, and the three extensive and populous quarters of Ravenna gradually
contributed to form one of the most important cities of Italy. The principal canal of Augustus
poured a copious stream of the waters of the Po through the midst of the city, to the entrance
of the harbor; the same waters were introduced into the profound ditches that encompassed the
walls; they were distributed by a thousand subordinate canals, into every part of the city,
which they divided into a variety of small islands; the communication was maintained only by
the use of boats and bridges; and the houses of Ravenna, whose appearance may be compared to
that of Venice, were raised on the foundation of wooden piles. The adjacent country, to the
distance of many miles, was a deep and impassable morass; and the artificial causeway, which
connected Ravenna with the continent, might be easily guarded or destroyed, on the approach
of a hostile army These morasses were interspersed, however, with vineyards: and though the
soil was exhausted by four or five crops, the town enjoyed a more plentiful supply of wine
than of fresh water. The air, instead of receiving the sickly, and almost pestilential, exhalations
of low and marshy grounds, was distinguished, like the neighborhood of Alexandria, as uncommonly
pure and salubrious; and this singular advantage was ascribed to the regular tides of the Adriatic,
which swept the canals, interrupted the unwholesome stagnation of the waters, and floated,
every day, the vessels of the adjacent country into the heart of Ravenna. The gradual retreat
of the sea has left the modern city at the distance of four miles from the Adriatic; and as
early as the fifth or sixth century of the Christian æra, the port of Augustus was converted
into pleasant orchards; and a lonely grove of pines covered the ground where the Roman fleet
once rode at anchor. Even this alteration contributed to increase the natural strength of the
place, and the shallowness of the water was a sufficient barrier against the large ships of
the enemy. This advantageous situation was fortified by art and labor; and in the twentieth
year of his age, the emperor of the West, anxious only for his personal safety, retired to
the perpetual confinement of the walls and morasses of Ravenna. The example of Honorius was
imitated by his feeble successors, the Gothic kings, and afterwards the Exarchs, who occupied
the throne and palace of the emperors; and till the middle of the eight century, Ravenna was
considered as the seat of government, and the capital of Italy.

The fears of Honorius were not without foundation, nor were his precautions without effect.
While Italy rejoiced in her deliverance from the Goths, a furious tempest was excited among
the nations of Germany, who yielded to the irresistible impulse that appears to have been gradually
communicated from the eastern extremity of the continent of Asia. The Chinese annals, as they
have been interpreted by the earned industry of the present age, may be usefully applied to
reveal the secret and remote causes of the fall of the Roman empire. The extensive territory
to the north of the great wall was possessed, after the flight of the Huns, by the victorious
Sienpi, who were sometimes broken into independent tribes, and sometimes reunited under a supreme
chief; till at length, styling themselves Topa, or masters of the earth, they acquired a more
solid consistence, and a more formidable power. The Topa soon compelled the pastoral nations
of the eastern desert to acknowledge the superiority of their arms; they invaded China in a
period of weakness and intestine discord; and these fortunate Tartars, adopting the laws and
manners of the vanquished people, founded an Imperial dynasty, which reigned near one hundred
and sixty years over the northern provinces of the monarchy. Some generations before they ascended
the throne of China, one of the Topa princes had enlisted in his cavalry a slave of the name
of Moko, renowned for his valor, but who was tempted, by the fear of punishment, to desert
his standard, and to range the desert at the head of a hundred followers. This gang of robbers
and outlaws swelled into a camp, a tribe, a numerous people, distinguished by the appellation
of Geougen; and their hereditary chieftains, the posterity of Moko the slave, assumed their
rank among the Scythian monarchs. The youth of Toulun, the greatest of his descendants, was
exercised by those misfortunes which are the school of heroes. He bravely struggled with adversity,
broke the imperious yoke of the Topa, and became the legislator of his nation, and the conqueror
of Tartary. His troops were distributed into regular bands of a hundred and of a thousand men;
cowards were stoned to death; the most splendid honors were proposed as the reward of valor;
and Toulun, who had knowledge enough to despise the learning of China, adopted only such arts
and institutions as were favorable to the military spirit of his government. His tents, which
he removed in the winter season to a more southern latitude, were pitched, during the summer,
on the fruitful banks of the Selinga. His conquests stretched from Corea far beyond the River
Irtish. He vanquished, in the country to the north of the Caspian Sea, the nation of the Huns;
and the new title of Khan, or Cagan, expressed the fame and power which he derived from this
memorable victory.

The chain of events is interrupted, or rather is concealed, as it passes from the Volga to
the Vistula, through the dark interval which separates the extreme limits of the Chinese, and
of the Roman, geography. Yet the temper of the Barbarians, and the experience of successive
emigrations, sufficiently declare, that the Huns, who were oppressed by the arms of the Geougen,
soon withdrew from the presence of an insulting victor. The countries towards the Euxine were
already occupied by their kindred tribes; and their hasty flight, which they soon converted
into a bold attack, would more naturally be directed towards the rich and level plains, through
which the Vistula gently flows into the Baltic Sea. The North must again have been alarmed,
and agitated, by the invasion of the Huns; and the nations who retreated before them must have
pressed with incumbent weight on the confines of Germany. The inhabitants of those regions,
which the ancients have assigned to the Suevi, the Vandals, and the Burgundians, might embrace
the resolution of abandoning to the fugitives of Sarmatia their woods and morasses; or at least
of discharging their superfluous numbers on the provinces of the Roman empire. This formidable
emigration issued from the same coast of the Baltic, which had poured forth the myriads of
the Cimbri and Teutones, to assault Rome and Italy in the vigor of the republic. After the
departure of those Barbarians, their native country, which was marked by the vestiges of their
greatness, long ramparts, and gigantic moles, remained, during some ages, a vast and dreary
solitude; till the human species was renewed by the powers of generation, and the vacancy was
filled by the influx of new inhabitants. The nations who now usurp an extent of land which
they are unable to cultivate, would soon be assisted by the industrious poverty of their neighbors,
if the government of Europe did not protect the claims of dominion and property.

Chapter XXX: Revolt Of The Goths.--Part IV. The emperor of the West, if his ministers disturbed
his amusements by the news of the impending danger, was satisfied with being the occasion,
and the spectator, of the war. The safety of Rome was intrusted to the counsels, and the sword,
of Stilicho; but such was the feeble and exhausted state of the empire, that it was impossible
to restore the fortifications of the Danube, or to prevent, by a vigorous effort, the invasion
of the Germans. The hopes of the vigilant minister of Honorius were confined to the defence
of Italy. He once more abandoned the provinces, recalled the troops, pressed the new levies,
which were rigorously exacted, and pusillanimously eluded; employed the most efficacious means
to arrest, or allure, the deserters; and offered the gift of freedom, and of two pieces of
gold, to all the slaves who would enlist. By these efforts he painfully collected, from the
subjects of a great empire, an army of thirty or forty thousand men, which, in the days of
Scipio or Camillus, would have been instantly furnished by the free citizens of the territory
of Rome. The thirty legions of Stilicho were reënforced by a large body of Barbarian auxiliaries;
the faithful Alani were personally attached to his service; and the troops of Huns and of Goths,
who marched under the banners of their native princes, Huldin and Sarus, were animated by interest
and resentment to oppose the ambition of Radagaisus. The king of the confederate Germans passed,
without resistance, the Alps, the Po, and the Apennine; leaving on one hand the inaccessible
palace of Honorius, securely buried among the marshes of Ravenna; and, on the other, the camp
of Stilicho, who had fixed his head-quarters at Ticinum, or Pavia, but who seems to have avoided
a decisive battle, till he had assembled his distant forces. The senate and people trembled
at their approached within a hundred and eighty miles of Rome; and anxiously compared the danger
which they had escaped, with the new perils to which they were exposed. Alaric was a Christian
and a soldier, the leader of a disciplined army; who understood the laws of war, who respected
the sanctity of treaties, and who had familiarly conversed with the subjects of the empire
in the same camps, and the same churches. The savage Radagaisus was a stranger to the manners,
the religion, and even the language, of the civilized nations of the South. The fierceness
of his temper was exasperated by cruel superstition; and it was universally believed, that
he had bound himself, by a solemn vow, to reduce the city into a heap of stones and ashes,
and to sacrifice the most illustrious of the Roman senators on the altars of those gods who
were appeased by human blood. The public danger, which should have reconciled all domestic
animosities, displayed the incurable madness of religious faction. The oppressed votaries of
Jupiter and Mercury respected, in the implacable enemy of Rome, the character of a devout Pagan;
loudly declared, that they were more apprehensive of the sacrifices, than of the arms, of Radagaisus;
and secretly rejoiced in the calamities of their country, which condemned the faith of their
Christian adversaries.

Florence was reduced to the last extremity; and the fainting courage of the citizens was supported
only by the authority of St. Ambrose; who had communicated, in a dream, the promise of a speedy
deliverance. On a sudden, they beheld, from their walls, the banners of Stilicho, who advanced,
with his united force, to the relief of the faithful city; and who soon marked that fatal spot
for the grave of the Barbarian host. The apparent contradictions of those writers who variously
relate the defeat of Radagaisus, may be reconciled without offering much violence to their
respective testimonies. Orosius and Augustin, who were intimately connected by friendship and
religion, ascribed this miraculous victory to the providence of God, rather than to the valor
of man. They strictly exclude every idea of chance, or even of bloodshed; and positively affirm,
that the Romans, whose camp was the scene of plenty and idleness, enjoyed the distress of the
Barbarians, slowly expiring on the sharp and barren ridge of the hills of Fæsulæ, which rise
above the city of Florence. Their extravagant assertion that not a single soldier of the Christian
army was killed, or even wounded, may be dismissed with silent contempt; but the rest of the
narrative of Augustin and Orosius is consistent with the state of the war, and the character
of Stilicho. Conscious that he commanded the last army of the republic, his prudence would
not expose it, in the open field, to the headstrong fury of the Germans. The method of surrounding
the enemy with strong lines of circumvallation, which he had twice employed against the Gothic
king, was repeated on a larger scale, and with more considerable effect. The examples of Cæsar
must have been familiar to the most illiterate of the Roman warriors; and the fortifications
of Dyrrachium, which connected twenty-four castles, by a perpetual ditch and rampart of fifteen
miles, afforded the model of an intrenchment which might confine, and starve, the most numerous
host of Barbarians. The Roman troops had less degenerated from the industry, than from the
valor, of their ancestors; and if their servile and laborious work offended the pride of the
soldiers, Tuscany could supply many thousand peasants, who would labor, though, perhaps, they
would not fight, for the salvation of their native country. The imprisoned multitude of horses
and men was gradually destroyed, by famine rather than by the sword; but the Romans were exposed,
during the progress of such an extensive work, to the frequent attacks of an impatient enemy. Thus
the modesty shown on, we will be inclined to listen to a different voice, what explanation on simpler
principles promises us. I gather from such a clever book by W. Trotter on the herd instinct, which
I only regret that it was the last great war unleashed by the antipathy has not completely withdrawn
[25].

Trotter, head of the mass of psychic phenomena described by a herd instinct (gregariousness), who belongs to
other people as the native species. This is biologically Herdenhaftigkeit an analogy and as a continuation
of multicellularity, in terms of libido theory further manifestation of the libido outgoing
tendency of all living beings like themselves ever more comprehensive units to unite for one
[26]. The individual feels incomplete (incomplete) if he is alone. Even the fear of the little
child was a manifestation of that herd instinct. Opposition to the herd as much as separation
from her and will therefore anxiously avoided. The herd but rejects anything new, unfamiliar. The herd
instinct is something primary, not further dismantled (which can not be split up). [26] See my essay
Beyond the Pleasure Principle.

Supplement II to the International Journal of Psychoanalysis, VI.,
1920.

Trotter available as the series of him as adopted primarily shoots
(or instincts): the self-preservation, nutrition, sex and herd instinct.

The latter often come in the position to the other face. Guilt and sense of duty are the characteristic properties
a gregarious animal. From the herd instinct can Trotter and the repressive forces go out, which
I pointed out in psychoanalysis has, and consequently the opposition alike, to which physicians
in the psychoanalytic treatment of the encounters. The language owes its importance to its suitability
for mutual understanding in the herd on her is based in large part, the identification of individuals
with each other. As Le Bon mainly the characteristic volatile mass formations and McDougall stable
socialization, then Trotter, the most common associations, in which the Man, this πολιτικόν ζῶον lives, the focus
of his interest moved in and given their psychological foundation.

For Trotter is required but no derivation of the herd instinct, as he referred to as primary and not
further resolvable. His remark, Boris Sidis lead herd of suggestibility from the, is, fortunately
it unnecessary for, and it is a statement by a known, unsatisfactory samples, and the reversal of
this sentence, that is, the suggestibility a descendant of the herd instinct is that seem to me
far But towards presentation makes evident Trotters. with even more justice than the other object
that it the role of leader in the mass takes too little account, whereas we tend rather to the opposite
verdict, that the essence of mass in neglect of leader to understand
is not. The herd instinct leaves no room at all for the guide, he will
only add to the herd as random, and in connection with this is that
this impulse also no way to a need of God leads, it lacks the shepherd
to the flock.

But also can be psychologically undermine Trotters representation, ie you can make it at least probable
that the herd instinct is not indecomposable, not the meaning is
primarily in how the self and the sexual.
 In the rapid progress down the Rhine, which was the first act of the administration
of Stilicho, he had applied himself, with peculiar attention, to secure the alliance of the
warlike Franks, and to remove the irreconcilable enemies of peace and of the republic. Marcomir,
one of their kings, was publicly convicted, before the tribunal of the Roman magistrate, of
violating the faith of treaties. He was sentenced to a mild, but distant exile, in the province
of Tuscany; and this degradation of the regal dignity was so far from exciting the resentment
of his subjects, that they punished with death the turbulent Sunno, who attempted to revenge
his brother; and maintained a dutiful allegiance to the princes, who were established on the
throne by the choice of Stilicho. When the limits of Gaul and Germany were shaken by the northern
emigration, the Franks bravely encountered the single force of the Vandals; who, regardless
of the lessons of adversity, had again separated their troops from the standard of their Barbarian
allies. They paid the penalty of their rashness; and twenty thousand Vandals, with their king
Godigisclus, were slain in the field of battle. The whole people must have been extirpated,
if the squadrons of the Alani, advancing to their relief, had not trampled down the infantry
of the Franks; who, after an honorable resistance, were compelled to relinquish the unequal
contest. The victorious confederates pursued their march, and on the last day of the year,
in a season when the waters of the Rhine were most probably frozen, they entered, without opposition,
the defenceless provinces of Gaul. This memorable passage of the Suevi, the Vandals, the Alani,
and the Burgundians, who never afterwards retreated, may be considered as the fall of the Roman
empire in the countries beyond the Alps; and the barriers, which had so long separated the
savage and the civilized nations of the earth, were from that fatal moment levelled with the
ground. The ecclesiastics, to whom we are indebted for this vague description of the public
calamities, embraced the opportunity of exhorting the Christians to repent of the sins which
had provoked the Divine Justice, and to renounce the perishable goods of a wretched and deceitful
world. But as the Pelagian controversy, which attempts to sound the abyss of grace and predestination,
soon became the serious employment of the Latin clergy, the Providence which had decreed, or
foreseen, or permitted, such a train of moral and natural evils, was rashly weighed in the
imperfect and fallacious balance of reason. The crimes, and the misfortunes, of the suffering
people, were presumptuously compared with those of their ancestors; and they arraigned the
Divine Justice, which did not exempt from the common destruction the feeble, the guiltless,
the infant portion of the human species. These idle disputants overlooked the invariable laws
of nature, which have connected peace with innocence, plenty with industry, and safety with
valor. The timid and selfish policy of the court of Ravenna might recall the Palatine legions
for the protection of Italy; the remains of the stationary troops might be unequal to the arduous
task; and the Barbarian auxiliaries might prefer the unbounded license of spoil to the benefits
of a moderate and regular stipend. But the provinces of Gaul were filled with a numerous race
of hardy and robust youth, who, in the defence of their houses, their families, and their altars,
if they had dared to die, would have deserved to vanquish. The knowledge of their native country
would have enabled them to oppose continual and insuperable obstacles to the progress of an
invader; and the deficiency of the Barbarians, in arms, as well as in discipline, removed the
only pretence which excuses the submission of a populous country to the inferior numbers of
a veteran army. When France was invaded by Charles V., he inquired of a prisoner, how many
days Paris might be distant from the frontier; "Perhaps twelve, but they will be days of battle:"
such was the gallant answer which checked the arrogance of that ambitious prince. The subjects
of Honorius, and those of Francis I., were animated by a very different spirit; and in less
than two years, the divided troops of the savages of the Baltic, whose numbers, were they fairly
stated, would appear contemptible, advanced, without a combat, to the foot of the Pyrenean
Mountains.

In the early part of the reign of Honorius, the vigilance of Stilicho had successfully guarded
the remote island of Britain from her incessant enemies of the ocean, the mountains, and the
Irish coast. But those restless Barbarians could not neglect the fair opportunity of the Gothic
war, when the walls and stations of the province were stripped of the Roman troops. If any
of the legionaries were permitted to return from the Italian expedition, their faithful report
of the court and character of Honorius must have tended to dissolve the bonds of allegiance,
and to exasperate the seditious temper of the British army. The spirit of revolt, which had
formerly disturbed the age of Gallienus, was revived by the capricious violence of the soldiers;
and the unfortunate, perhaps the ambitious, candidates, who were the objects of their choice,
were the instruments, and at length the victims, of their passion. Marcus was the first whom
they placed on the throne, as the lawful emperor of Britain and of the West. They violated,
by the hasty murder of Marcus, the oath of fidelity which they had imposed on themselves; and
their disapprobation of his manners may seem to inscribe an honorable epitaph on his tomb.
Gratian was the next whom they adorned with the diadem and the purple; and, at the end of four
months, Gratian experienced the fate of his predecessor. After laughter rang us when we left the
room, and I had my incarnation as much attracted to human vanity, that me this laugh very angry. How
I wish I would have the narrative of that interesting young man belongs
to the end, how many important and would have psychological I Garde
uniform loving fraeulein can overhear the by, and I myself was not
quite made it, on that evening to capture young hearts?

A young, rich, may I say, handsome man on the road is where he goes, friendly eyes, through which it feeds
easily into the heart of this - and all this I had the unpolished nature of the corrupt old man, I
would have him choke can, as we car sat in the. "Was it not enough," I said, "to bring sharp Jews
beard the gentle hand of the Most Gracious sensitive brushing your with? Did you remember the wife
of Wollau through your untimely laughter offend, too? And hardly have you made it back well, so
you bring everything you once more against.

What you went for the S to chwabenmaedel that you beauty to the tea-tables preach their Berlin? you
allowed for even in China say a Schoenen, they have a Teegesicht? And now that you pointed the words
of the ungracious woman had inserted, now, than anything in the first sensible topic that was
discussed this evening, listened, now you fall, as the late high priest Eli in the second chapter of Samuel,
backwards into the hall and hast broken - not his own hollow skull, as that worthy Jewish Pope
No -! a delicately carved armchair and a cup of Meissner porcelain, say, say, poor fellow,
how did you do just to "" In your place, Satan, I would be arrogant Lord does not like us against
that, "he said glumly." You know that you no power over my soul is entitled, for fifteen hundred
years, since I know your tricks and intrigues well. What the Elis-story concerns but, as I want
you clean with wine, assuming you have accompanied me in an inn, for the laepperige tea here, with
the one China would hardly wash the cups, with even deteriorate the
arrack, have made me miserable all over.

"I allowed before a Restaurateur keep inside and this caused the doctor after an accident hypocrite. It was
pretty late at night, and only a few, but real drinkers in the host room. We sat at a table
for four or five of these nocturnal companions, I left for the old people apply Burgundy, and in fluent
Malabar, of which the drinkers knew nothing certain, I asked him to tell too. After the Wandering Jew
by several sips had recovered, he began: "I think it is a part of the curse that rests upon me that
I, as soon as I in higher spheres of society dare me, would ridiculous,
a few examples will suffice you."

You know I, for my earthly life to pass the boredom, sometimes a love affair - search now forgive your
face but not so ironically, I am a stereotype edition of a vigorous fifty, and such may already have
venture onto ice. Now I once had a small Saxon village to a Beautiful on the grain. I had already
for some days entry into the parental home, and the little coquette
I do not seem averse. I dressed carefully in order to please her,
I scherwenzelte they come around, when she went walking in short,
I was such a consummate fool, as ever about the patch from Leipzig
went away.

In the small town it is good form, in the morning at nine clock at
the home of his Schoenen pass, looked out her, Grace has been with
the hat and pulled some little sigh.

"This is what I had and pulled me soon abgemerkt now undertaken, if the Bell neun clock buzzed,
that house passed, and I had the pleasure to see how my angels at
the window looking out each time and graciously smiled.

One morning it is very muddy on the street, and I therefore went to Stockings to spare the white silk
, on tiptoe and took steps like a cock. But before the house of my Schoenen was the dirt in large
piles swept together neatly, because the dad was a kind of police inspector and had a population
of a good example of giving, was pleased how my heart about this cleanliness, I was able to appear
solid, I could with the right leg when I compliment made my, digress gracefully, without soiling
myself. My angel looked graciously down with joy I take my hat of the schoenfrisierten toupee him
waving in a bold bow and - oh, bad luck - he escaped from my hand, he drives like an arrow into the
piles of debris, leaving only the tip hervorsieht. "How nice Schiller says:" a look after the grave of his
possessions still send the man back. '"So I stood thunderstruck at
the garbage.

I Should delicate position with the fingertips out of the hat? But then it was feared that he was
completely ruined, I should totally chapeau bas move on, as one of the hat to the gallows or the
madhouse sprung without? "As a silver Feuergloeckchen Dulzinea: Hi now the merry laughter of my
on my ear, muttering as the heavy death knell, the Grabgelaeute my hope to answer ten bass from
the cafe opposite; hussar lieutenant, scribes, merchants roar from the wide-open windows, and 'Hussa, Sultan,'
m lost! " echoes the voice of my most formidable rival, the Count Lobau. mastiff Menschenlaenge
crashes out of an English, grabs the hat lost with a practiced nose, runs up to me, stands on
his hind legs, groping with his paws on my shoulders and presented me the dripping corpus delicti.
"What I am here with many words center told my friend, was the work of a moment, frozen like
I was standing there, and only the intrusiveness of the courteous dog gave me my composure.
Neighing, jubilant laughter from the cafe, and were also echoed her
window with all the laughs dilute, and when, one affectionate look
that last one, let me walk up, I saw her cambric handkerchief in his
mouth pushed it, not before laughter burst.

Then
I lost again by the text; Furious, I grabbed the hat and mastiff
hit him the face, but the beast did not have fun, they took me to
the delicate breast strips, I made her this spoils and made me hurry
it, through thick and too thin galloping, but Beast was followed by,
and other dogs and urchins to crash, and the horrible hunt took only
one end, I came into the portal of my inn crashed out of breath.

"That there with my love was over, you can imagine, especially as
I learned later, the coquette have their worshipers at this hour in
the cafe ordered everyone around windows Parade to enjoy my daily
"I pitied the poor of heart, but he took calmly for his glass, drank,
and then continued:" Can you assure as scoundrels it was with me always,
but especially in the new enlightened age, where you so very much
the propriety holds up and want to despair when the excellent hoop
skirt of etiquette a little rough is touched.

So it is with me a banquet always hoellenangst.

If sauce umhergegeben fat, so I can see in my mind, that I tremble so and they'll spill. Then
comes the begging to me, breaks my sweat of fear from the gravy boat rattle my trembling hand terribly,
they varies, I'm going after that with his other hand and - really,
my friendly neighbor, the whole mess on the new Drap d'or, or Genoese
velvet, that all fats floating in the most beautiful. but I have finally
gone through such a Fegefeuertour, no sauce to spill, without knocking
down a glass without dropping a spoon, without the tail to take the
lap dog, without the house, the largest sottises to say to the daughter
if I want to be spicy and polite, so I shall take some mischief still
to the conclusion that I may depart with shame as it is today.

"" Well, "I said," and what you looked for to-day middle of the room? "" When the boring man
uplift his narration, as some priests have a listen and sing like He was running after a pretty
girl - what you can do anywhere, especially in Rome without being - as I was overcome the boredom
that my main one is evil, and so I sat down to talk to me, my chair backwards in motion and
rocked me completely comfortable. Suddenly, before I was aware, the chair suggested to me over backwards,
and I was - "" I have unfortunately seen how you were lying, "I said," but how can one only in respectable
society so completely forgotten all the good manners and the rocking
chair with me. ""

Be quiet
now, and bring me to the damn story, and I have made no luck tonight, that's all. Bibamus,
Diabolik! " said the old man, with skilled example preceded by itself and then the dark red glass
with a smile pointed to: "This one is kosher, brother, good Burgundy, Chambertin real and at
least twenty years old. You may now laugh at me or not, but one good old piggy from Suedstamme
is still my passion, and I maintain that the world now sees just about bad like this, because so much
tea, brandy and beer, but the less wine is drunk. "" You could be right, Jew! " "How handsome,"
he continued enthusiasm on the "how handsome took otherwise Wirtshaeuser from the. Wide,
stocky, strong build, the three-cornered hat, a little page set up, red face, fiery eyes, a
bluish-playing noses, respectable bellies - so they went, the tall, gold-studded ocean pipe in hand, saluting
solemnly into the room. When the nail was hanging his hat on the floor in the corner was made, gradually,
the guest spot on the well-known that for years he are self made
and had the after baptism seemed to him often.

The landlord presented with a 'good it do you' the wine jug from the honest drinkers, the habitual
cup neighbors found themselves appointed hour one on, they drank much, talked little, and went at the
appointed hours back home.

That was the good old days, as people say in the years to expect, so it was only death and made
it a change.

Now they all hang on the plaster, making the state as the prince and sit the hosts two pennies
from the benches around. funny, restless rabble drives the Wirtshaeusern around in, you never
know more, next to whom one comes to sit and to welcome the people you meet Maximum K osmopolitismu
see some old faces of green wine the real variety, but this race
is almost extinct, ""

Look there, "I remembered him," you crying in the wilderness, there to sit a few genuine. Just look at
the little man there in the brown coat, as is so fiery red eyes over the bottle rolled off the leaves.
It seems to me a real connoisseur, because he drinks the Nierensteiner churchyard wine he has
before, in very small trains and crushed him properly in the mouth before he swallows. And there
the great fat man with the red nose, he is not a character from the old days? If he is not the
glass in the whole fist, instead of the moderns the small and the gold fingers delicately stretching
out like, is he already at the fourth does not bottle, since we here are, and have you not noticed
how he always plug in your pocket, after counting to how many bottles he drunk? "" Truly, these
are real! " exclaimed the enthusiastic Jew, "I have been young and
aged, but there are not many such, they let us put up, mi fratercule"

We were advised not fail.

Those were the real drinkers of variety, for twenty years since they came every night into the same
inn. One can imagine how happy we joined them on. I, because I love those owls and outreach,
the eternal Jew, however, because the contrast between the elegant tea drinkers and those in his eyes
was very in favor of the latter. He was so cordial that he seemed to forget that he forefathers
had been drinking with her that he would drink again with their grandchildren late, perhaps.
The old companion might now have their cargo, because they were friendly
and started at a low down mumbling to himself, then turned out that
hum a tune, and finally they sang in a hoarse throat wine their usual
songs.

Even the old people took this pleasure. He tootled with the melodies, and when they had finished, he also
began his song.

He sang: "Who his body after age counteth nights, he watched through the happy, Who, if he ails
of dollars also pokes fun at the dime yourself to, the place in us his people, had greeted us
the brothers for him, as us, the God of joy his gentle arms closes in. of the dance softly Rocked If,
from Floetentoenen cute drunk, Dear love the arms schmieget in and look for love look is exchanged,
as we have flying eaten in, and quickly moment caught the, And heart to heart, the lips tightly nibbled
sweet greeting. The wine can pay you with gold, but his fire is soon dissipated, if not the God in
his rays, In his Geisterglut you dive; us who sing his hymns, lit
us before its flame, And on wings of Tones free spirit rises to our
mind up.

So, the good friends raises her words a worthy song, you gruess I,
surging chords, its us herniederschwebt That You dive down on them
- float , In the full tone rustles the song, and sweetly echoes in
our songs to the full Glaeser party sound.

That's always kept us and remain henceforth attending, and like the world we grow old to, we remain forever
young and new: For, once the spirit of us cloudy, we have him in the old wine, and go with our
love of singing and joy in heaven. " Whether this eternal Jews own
poetry was of, I can not say for certain, but he made me realize at
times that he bit a poet was also, the two old wine spirits were
very satisfied and edified, they pushed the old M eople hand and behaved
when he would have them eternal salvation proclaimed.

It struck the clock three quarters before twelve. The Eternal Jew looked
at me and broke up, I followed. Touching was the farewell between
us and the drinkers, and even on the street their hoarse voices,
we sing in strange Toene heard: "And once the mind is overcast us,
we bathe him in the old wine, and go with song and love our pleasure
heaven In.

"* * * * * SATANS VISIT TO LORD OF GOETHE with some introductory remarks about the diabolic in German
literature." Time to time I see from 'I ancients liked to And huete me to break with him, It
is very pretty from a great man, So to speak the human devil himself with. " Goethe. CHAPTER XVI. Remarks
about the diabolic in German literature. "The idea of a devil is as old as the world and only
through the Bible among the people have not. Every religion has its demons and evil spirits
- of course because the People start to have sinned by themselves and by their habitual anthropomorphism
the Boese, they saw a spirit attributed, whose Business it is to wreak havoc everywhere. "-
So approximately I would say if I brought up as a professor of philosophy and now I would have about the
deeeines T would make me eufels wide.

In my position, but I dye over such demonstrations, which habitually run out, that one looks for
reasons to argue away with Decalogue me, and I laugh about it and say, the people, so stupid they may
be there and here, but soon remember when it all geheuerumsieher is not, and they like me now, or
Ahriman, the evil principle, Satan or Mr. Urian call, they know me in all peoples and languages.
It's a nice thing about the "hic est Medici," about the German literature pleases me so much.
Have not the greatest minds of this nation trying to glorify myself, and if not I would be already
to make me forever? In my Dissertatio de rebus diabolicis I say on this subject including the following:
"Paragraph 8th T he I dee, dasmoralische V erderbenin P ersondarzustellen one musstesich daherden
ichternhalbaufdraenge D n, which were, as it was mostly the case
in Germany, made philosophically, but it was their philosophy as their
moral of that broad, thick variety, with over belongings hinzugleiten
do not ease, so was it that even the structure of that philosophical
imagination lead to the feet wearing them, they do not appear to let
skill, they stumbled onto the stage and the stage, set themselves
in broad philosophies, the tenth did not immediately understand that,
and turned and turned, as they should in a narrow bridge with no railing
to avoid each other hoops.

Thus it was that the devil of these poets were recorded altogether. Consider, for example, Klinger Satan.
How many bombast, this poor fellow, first in of hell and then the
earth herzuleiern on!

Klingemann's devil Believe! not, he had him quickly out of the puppets from the road brought only
his limbs stretched out the till he right size had, and it then the scene is set in? Man does
not understand how a man from such a monster should be seduce. "There are several such literary
monsters, the particulars listed here is not the space allowed. They all made fun of me always,
and I felt many times as the Policinello of the Italian comedy, and I was with these people,
a standing figure, which, though somewhat differently dressed up, again and again the horns
sticking out yet, and under which are in better knowledge of an Ecce
homo, behold, this is the devil, wrote.

But the devil you have to do justice too, says an old proverb, that is why the devil for revenge
again be just. "Everyone tells you how he's can not," I went on the thesis continues in, "and how in those
poets of the moral corruption at every once other reflections mirrored in, it also gave them
their devil. Why is it that Mr. Urian at Klopstock again by far, things are different. "That
is a fallen angel Abaddon, the hellish fire that scorched the wings,
but also the worthy and noble is now exempt.

But unfortunately this end, but missed a few, to me at least before this comes Klopstock Satan as
an elegant, the 'bad habits from the salons expelled for clubs in and philistine not seem to find
the white tabagi, and therefore indecent moans.

"So approximately I said that I learned dissertation in, and I do too now that the view like any
idea, including that of the devil, are the individual views of the poet about to Boese, the judge must, but
all this does not excuse those famous man , by virtue of his comprehensive
genius, not the narrow borders of his country or the time span in
which he lives, but a thing of the earth and future centuries could
excuse it does not make it, he a poor devil has brought the world
so that.

The G M oethesche ephis tophel is really nothing more than that horned and tailed bugbear of
the people. The tail he has in his pants rolled up and put, for the goat-footed, he has attracted elegant
boots, the horns he has hidden under the cap - see because the devil
of the great poet!

Man I will object: "This is just so the great art of the man he a thousand threads to that spin white,
by his bold idea, his tall, exuberant ideas to the people living
at the People's Poetry ties ."--"

Hold, friend! Is it a man who, as they say, so high above his subject gets up and never lets him
control himself, it is worthy of such a poet that he is in the shackles
of popularity hugs?

Should not eagles this people at his popular Schopf grasp of and in his sun altitude take with
you? "" Forgive me, dearest, "I get the answer," you forget that this nation of many a wig wears
on, would such a at risk is not acceptable that it be broken by the
braid and he half-height back to earth falls?

See! the master has the intent better, he has made those thousands of threads, of which I told you, a
rope, braided, his disciples and neatly without any danger to him to climb up on. The master,
however, it setteth himself in his ark, like Noah, he hangs with them about the flood the present
time, looking as calm as a god into the rain, the feathers of the
young poet pours out.

"" A watery image! ANSWER " I, "and is a sottises. Was because in that ark not more cattle than people?
 An honorable reluctance to shed
the blood of his countrymen appears to have contributed to the success of his unworthy rival;
and it is the last humiliation of the character of Honorius, that posterity has not condescended
to reproach him with his base ingratitude to the guardian of his youth, and the support of
his empire.

Among the train of dependants whose wealth and dignity attracted the notice of their own times,
our curiosity is excited by the celebrated name of the poet Claudian, who enjoyed the favor
of Stilicho, and was overwhelmed in the ruin of his patron. The titular offices of tribune
and notary fixed his rank in the Imperial court: he was indebted to the powerful intercession
of Serena for his marriage with a very rich heiress of the province of Africa; and the statute
of Claudian, erected in the forum of Trajan, was a monument of the taste and liberality of
the Roman senate. After the praises of Stilicho became offensive and criminal, Claudian was
exposed to the enmity of a powerful and unforgiving courtier, whom he had provoked by the insolence
of wit. He had compared, in a lively epigram, the opposite characters of two Prætorian præfects
of Italy; he contrasts the innocent repose of a philosopher, who sometimes resigned the hours
of business to slumber, perhaps to study, with the interesting diligence of a rapacious minister,
indefatigable in the pursuit of unjust or sacrilegious, gain. "How happy," continues Claudian,
"how happy might it be for the people of Italy, if Mallius could be constantly awake, and if
Hadrian would always sleep!" The repose of Mallius was not disturbed by this friendly and gentle
admonition; but the cruel vigilance of Hadrian watched the opportunity of revenge, and easily
obtained, from the enemies of Stilicho, the trifling sacrifice of an obnoxious poet. The poet
concealed himself, however, during the tumult of the revolution; and, consulting the dictates
of prudence rather than of honor, he addressed, in the form of an epistle, a suppliant and
humble recantation to the offended præfect. He deplores, in mournful strains, the fatal indiscretion
into which he had been hurried by passion and folly; submits to the imitation of his adversary
the generous examples of the clemency of gods, of heroes, and of lions; and expresses his hope
that the magnanimity of Hadrian will not trample on a defenceless and contemptible foe, already
humbled by disgrace and poverty, and deeply wounded by the exile, the tortures, and the death
of his dearest friends. Whatever might be the success of his prayer, or the accidents of his
future life, the period of a few years levelled in the grave the minister and the poet: but
the name of Hadrian is almost sunk in oblivion, while Claudian is read with pleasure in every
country which has retained, or acquired, the knowledge of the Latin language. If we fairly
balance his merits and his defects, we shall acknowledge that Claudian does not either satisfy,
or silence, our reason. It would not be easy to produce a passage that deserves the epithet
of sublime or pathetic; to select a verse that melts the heart or enlarges the imagination.
We should vainly seek, in the poems of Claudian, the happy invention, and artificial conduct,
of an interesting fable; or the just and lively representation of the characters and situations
of real life. For the service of his patron, he published occasional panegyrics and invectives:
and the design of these slavish compositions encouraged his propensity to exceed the limits
of truth and nature. These imperfections, however, are compensated in some degree by the poetical
virtues of Claudian. He was endowed with the rare and precious talent of raising the meanest,
of adorning the most barren, and of diversifying the most similar, topics: his coloring, more
especially in descriptive poetry, is soft and splendid; and he seldom fails to display, and
even to abuse, the advantages of a cultivated understanding, a copious fancy, an easy, and
sometimes forcible, expression; and a perpetual flow of harmonious versification. To these
commendations, independent of any accidents of time and place, we must add the peculiar merit
which Claudian derived from the unfavorable circumstances of his birth. In the decline of arts,
and of empire, a native of Egypt, who had received the education of a Greek, assumed, in a
mature age, the familiar use, and absolute command, of the Latin language; soared above the
heads of his feeble contemporaries; and placed himself, after an interval of three hundred
years, among the poets of ancient Rome.

Chapter XXXI: Invasion Of Italy, Occupation Of Territories By Barbarians.--Part I.

     Invasion Of Italy By Alaric.--Manners Of The Roman Senate
     And People.--Rome Is Thrice Besieged, And At Length
     Pillaged, By The Goths.--Death Of Alaric.--The Goths
     Evacuate Italy.--Fall Of Constantine.--Gaul And Spain Are
     Occupied By The Barbarians.--Independence Of Britain.

The incapacity of a weak and distracted government may often assume the appearance, and produce
the effects, of a treasonable correspondence with the public enemy. If Alaric himself had been
introduced into the council of Ravenna, he would probably have advised the same measures which
were actually pursued by the ministers of Honorius. The king of the Goths would have conspired,
perhaps with some reluctance, to destroy the formidable adversary, by whose arms, in Italy,
as well as in Greece, he had been twice overthrown. Their active and interested hatred laboriously
accomplished the disgrace and ruin of the great Stilicho. The valor of Sarus, his fame in arms,
and his personal, or hereditary, influence over the confederate Barbarians, could recommend
him only to the friends of their country, who despised, or detested, the worthless characters
of Turpilio, Varanes, and Vigilantius. By the pressing instances of the new favorites, these
generals, unworthy as they had shown themselves of the names of soldiers, were promoted to
the command of the cavalry, of the infantry, and of the domestic troops. The Gothic prince
would have subscribed with pleasure the edict which the fanaticism of Olympius dictated to
the simple and devout emperor. Honorius excluded all persons, who were adverse to the Catholic
church, from holding any office in the state; obstinately rejected the service of all those
who dissented from his religion; and rashly disqualified many of his bravest and most skilful
officers, who adhered to the Pagan worship, or who had imbibed the opinions of Arianism. These
measures, so advantageous to an enemy, Alaric would have approved, and might perhaps have suggested;
but it may seem doubtful, whether the Barbarian would have promoted his interest at the expense
of the inhuman and absurd cruelty which was perpetrated by the direction, or at least with
the connivance of the Imperial ministers. The foreign auxiliaries, who had been attached to
the person of Stilicho, lamented his death; but the desire of revenge was checked by a natural
apprehension for the safety of their wives and children; who were detained as hostages in the
strong cities of Italy, where they had likewise deposited their most valuable effects. At the
same hour, and as if by a common signal, the cities of Italy were polluted by the same horrid
scenes of universal massacre and pillage, which involved, in promiscuous destruction, the families
and fortunes of the Barbarians. Exasperated by such an injury, which might have awakened the
tamest and most servile spirit, they cast a look of indignation and hope towards the camp of
Alaric, and unanimously swore to pursue, with just and implacable war, the perfidious nation
who had so basely violated the laws of hospitality. By the imprudent conduct of the ministers
of Honorius, the republic lost the assistance, and deserved the enmity, of thirty thousand
of her bravest soldiers; and the weight of that formidable army, which alone might have determined
the event of the war, was transferred from the scale of the Romans into that of the Goths.

In the arts of negotiation, as well as in those of war, the Gothic king maintained his superior
ascendant over an enemy, whose seeming changes proceeded from the total want of counsel and
design. From his camp, on the confines of Italy, Alaric attentively observed the revolutions
of the palace, watched the progress of faction and discontent, disguised the hostile aspect
of a Barbarian invader, and assumed the more popular appearance of the friend and ally of the
great Stilicho: to whose virtues, when they were no longer formidable, he could pay a just
tribute of sincere praise and regret. The pressing invitation of the malecontents, who urged
the king of the Goths to invade Italy, was enforced by a lively sense of his personal injuries;
and he might especially complain, that the Imperial ministers still delayed and eluded the
payment of the four thousand pounds of gold which had been granted by the Roman senate, either
to reward his services, or to appease his fury. His decent firmness was supported by an artful
moderation, which contributed to the success of his designs. He required a fair and reasonable
satisfaction; but he gave the strongest assurances, that, as soon as he had obtained it, he
would immediately retire. He refused to trust the faith of the Romans, unless Ætius and Jason,
the sons of two great officers of state, were sent as hostages to his camp; but he offered
to deliver, in exchange, several of the noblest youths of the Gothic nation. The modesty of
Alaric was interpreted, by the ministers of Ravenna, as a sure evidence of his weakness and
fear. They disdained either to negotiate a treaty, or to assemble an army; and with a rash
confidence, derived only from their ignorance of the extreme danger, irretrievably wasted the
decisive moments of peace and war. Instead of attempting the hopeless siege of Ravenna, the
prudent leader of the Goths proceeded to Rimini, stretched his ravages along the sea-coast
of the Hadriatic, and meditated the conquest of the ancient mistress of the world. An Italian
hermit, whose zeal and sanctity were respected by the Barbarians themselves, encountered the
victorious monarch, and boldly denounced the indignation of Heaven against the oppressors of
the earth; but the saint himself was confounded by the solemn asseveration of Alaric, that
he felt a secret and præternatural impulse, which directed, and even compelled, his march to
the gates of Rome. He felt, that his genius and his fortune were equal to the most arduous
enterprises; and the enthusiasm which he communicated to the Goths, insensibly removed the
popular, and almost superstitious, reverence of the nations for the majesty of the Roman name.
His troops, animated by the hopes of spoil, followed the course of the Flaminian way, occupied
the unguarded passes of the Apennine, descended into the rich plains of Umbria; and, as they
lay encamped on the banks of the Clitumnus, might wantonly slaughter and devour the milk-white
oxen, which had been so long reserved for the use of Roman triumphs. A lofty situation, and
a seasonable tempest of thunder and lightning, preserved the little city of Narni; but the
king of the Goths, despising the ignoble prey, still advanced with unabated vigor; and after
he had passed through the stately arches, adorned with the spoils of Barbaric victories, he
pitched his camp under the walls of Rome.

During a period of six hundred and nineteen years, the seat of empire had never been violated
by the presence of a foreign enemy. The unsuccessful expedition of Hannibal served only to
display the character of the senate and people; of a senate degraded, rather than ennobled,
by the comparison of an assembly of kings; and of a people, to whom the ambassador of Pyrrhus
ascribed the inexhaustible resources of the Hydra. Each of the senators, in the time of the
Punic war, had accomplished his term of the military service, either in a subordinate or a
superior station; and the decree, which invested with temporary command all those who had been
consuls, or censors, or dictators, gave the republic the immediate assistance of many brave
and experienced generals. In the beginning of the war, the Roman people consisted of two hundred
and fifty thousand citizens of an age to bear arms. Fifty thousand had already died in the
defence of their country; and the twenty-three legions which were employed in the different
camps of Italy, Greece, Sardinia, Sicily, and Spain, required about one hundred thousand men.
But there still remained an equal number in Rome, and the adjacent territory, who were animated
by the same intrepid courage; and every citizen was trained, from his earliest youth, in the
discipline and exercises of a soldier. Hannibal was astonished by the constancy of the senate,
who, without raising the siege of Capua, or recalling their scattered forces, expected his
approach. He encamped on the banks of the Anio, at the distance of three miles from the city;
and he was soon informed, that the ground on which he had pitched his tent, was sold for an
adequate price at a public auction; and that a body of troops was dismissed by an opposite
road, to reënforce the legions of Spain. He led his Africans to the gates of Rome, where he
found three armies in order of battle, prepared to receive him; but Hannibal dreaded the event
of a combat, from which he could not hope to escape, unless he destroyed the last of his enemies;
and his speedy retreat confessed the invincible courage of the Romans.

From the time of the Punic war, the uninterrupted succession of senators had preserved the
name and image of the republic; and the degenerate subjects of Honorius ambitiously derived
their descent from the heroes who had repulsed the arms of Hannibal, and subdued the nations
of the earth. The temporal honors which the devout Paula inherited and despised, are carefully
recapitulated by Jerom, the guide of her conscience, and the historian of her life. The genealogy
of her father, Rogatus, which ascended as high as Agamemnon, might seem to betray a Grecian
origin; but her mother, Blæsilla, numbered the Scipios, Æmilius Paulus, and the Gracchi, in
the list of her ancestors; and Toxotius, the husband of Paula, deduced his royal lineage from
Æneas, the father of the Julian line. The vanity of the rich, who desired to be noble, was
gratified by these lofty pretensions. Encouraged by the applause of their parasites, they easily
imposed on the credulity of the vulgar; and were countenanced, in some measure, by the custom
of adopting the name of their patron, which had always prevailed among the freedmen and clients
of illustrious families. Most of those families, however, attacked by so many causes of external
violence or internal decay, were gradually extirpated; and it would be more reasonable to seek
for a lineal descent of twenty generations, among the mountains of the Alps, or in the peaceful
solitude of Apulia, than on the theatre of Rome, the seat of fortune, of danger, and of perpetual
revolutions. Under each successive reign, and from every province of the empire, a crowd of
hardy adventurers, rising to eminence by their talents or their vices, usurped the wealth,
the honors, and the palaces of Rome; and oppressed, or protected, the poor and humble remains
of consular families; who were ignorant, perhaps, of the glory of their ancestors.

In the time of Jerom and Claudian, the senators unanimously yielded the preeminence to the
Anician line; and a slight view of their history will serve to appreciate the rank and antiquity
of the noble families, which contended only for the second place. During the five first ages
of the city, the name of the Anicians was unknown; they appear to have derived their origin
from Præneste; and the ambition of those new citizens was long satisfied with the Plebeian
honors of tribunes of the people. One hundred and sixty-eight years before the Christian æra,
the family was ennobled by the Prætorship of Anicius, who gloriously terminated the Illyrian
war, by the conquest of the nation, and the captivity of their king. From the triumph of that
general, three consulships, in distant periods, mark the succession of the Anician name. From
the reign of Diocletian to the final extinction of the Western empire, that name shone with
a lustre which was not eclipsed, in the public estimation, by the majesty of the Imperial purple.
The several branches, to whom it was communicated, united, by marriage or inheritance, the
wealth and titles of the Annian, the Petronian, and the Olybrian houses; and in each generation
the number of consulships was multiplied by an hereditary claim. The Anician family excelled
in faith and in riches: they were the first of the Roman senate who embraced Christianity;
and it is probable that Anicius Julian, who was afterwards consul and præfect of the city,
atoned for his attachment to the party of Maxentius, by the readiness with which he accepted
the religion of Constantine. Their ample patrimony was increased by the industry of Probus,
the chief of the Anician family; who shared with Gratian the honors of the consulship, and
exercised, four times, the high office of Prætorian præfect. His immense estates were scattered
over the wide extent of the Roman world; and though the public might suspect or disapprove
the methods by which they had been acquired, the generosity and magnificence of that fortunate
statesman deserved the gratitude of his clients, and the admiration of strangers.

"The marbles of the Anician palace," were used as a proverbial expression of opulence and splendor;
but the nobles and senators of Rome aspired, in due gradation, to imitate that illustrious
family. The accurate description of the city, which was composed in the Theodosian age, enumerates
one thousand seven hundred and eighty houses, the residence of wealthy and honorable citizens.
Many of these stately mansions might almost excuse the exaggeration of the poet; that Rome
contained a multitude of palaces, and that each palace was equal to a city: since it included
within its own precincts every thing which could be subservient either to use or luxury; markets,
hippodromes, temples, fountains, baths, porticos, shady groves, and artificial aviaries. The
historian Olympiodorus, who represents the state of Rome when it was besieged by the Goths,
continues to observe, that several of the richest senators received from their estates an annual
income of four thousand pounds of gold, above one hundred and sixty thousand pounds sterling;
without computing the stated provision of corn and wine, which, had they been sold, might have
equalled in value one third of the money. Compared to this immoderate wealth, an ordinary revenue
of a thousand or fifteen hundred pounds of gold might be considered as no more than adequate
to the dignity of the senatorian rank, which required many expenses of a public and ostentatious
kind. Several examples are recorded, in the age of Honorius, of vain and popular nobles, who
celebrated the year of their prætorship by a festival, which lasted seven days, and cost above
one hundred thousand pounds sterling. The estates of the Roman senators, which so far exceeded
the proportion of modern wealth, were not confined to the limits of Italy. Their possessions
extended far beyond the Ionian and Ægean Seas, to the most distant provinces: the city of Nicopolis,
which Augustus had founded as an eternal monument of the Actian victory, was the property of
the devout Paula; and it is observed by Seneca, that the rivers, which had divided hostile
nations, now flowed through the lands of private citizens. According to their temper and circumstances,
the estates of the Romans were either cultivated by the labor of their slaves, or granted,
for a certain and stipulated rent, to the industrious farmer. The economical writers of antiquity
strenuously recommend the former method, wherever it may be practicable; but if the object
should be removed, by its distance or magnitude, from the immediate eye of the master, they
prefer the active care of an old hereditary tenant, attached to the soil, and interested in
the produce, to the mercenary administration of a negligent, perhaps an unfaithful, steward.

The opulent nobles of an immense capital, who were never excited by the pursuit of military
glory, and seldom engaged in the occupations of civil government, naturally resigned their
leisure to the business and amusements of private life. At Rome, commerce was always held in
contempt: but the senators, from the first age of the republic, increased their patrimony,
and multiplied their clients, by the lucrative practice of usury; and the obsolete laws were
eluded, or violated, by the mutual inclinations and interest of both parties. A considerable
mass of treasure must always have existed at Rome, either in the current coin of the empire,
or in the form of gold and silver plate; and there were many sideboards in the time of Pliny
which contained more solid silver, than had been transported by Scipio from vanquished Carthage.
The greater part of the nobles, who dissipated their fortunes in profuse luxury, found themselves
poor in the midst of wealth, and idle in a constant round of dissipation. Their desires were
continually gratified by the labor of a thousand hands; of the numerous train of their domestic
slaves, who were actuated by the fear of punishment; and of the various professions of artificers
and merchants, who were more powerfully impelled by the hopes of gain. The ancients were destitute
of many of the conveniences of life, which have been invented or improved by the progress of
industry; and the plenty of glass and linen has diffused more real comforts among the modern
nations of Europe, than the senators of Rome could derive from all the refinements of pompous
or sensual luxury. Their luxury, and their manners, have been the subject of minute and laborious
disposition: but as such inquiries would divert me too long from the design of the present
work, I shall produce an authentic state of Rome and its inhabitants, which is more peculiarly
applicable to the period of the Gothic invasion. Ammianus Marcellinus, who prudently chose
the capital of the empire as the residence the best adapted to the historian of his own times,
has mixed with the narrative of public events a lively representation of the scenes with which
he was familiarly conversant. The judicious reader will not always approve of the asperity
of censure, the choice of circumstances, or the style of expression; he will perhaps detect
the latent prejudices, and personal resentments, which soured the temper of Ammianus himself;
but he will surely observe, with philosophic curiosity, the interesting and original picture
of the manners of Rome.

"The greatness of Rome"--such is the language of the historian--"was founded on the rare, and
almost incredible, alliance of virtue and of fortune. The long period of her infancy was employed
in a laborious struggle against the tribes of Italy, the neighbors and enemies of the rising
city. In the strength and ardor of youth, she sustained the storms of war; carried her victorious
arms beyond the seas and the mountains; and brought home triumphal laurels from every country
of the globe. At length, verging towards old age, and sometimes conquering by the terror only
of her name, she sought the blessings of ease and tranquillity. The venerable city, which had
trampled on the necks of the fiercest nations, and established a system of laws, the perpetual
guardians of justice and freedom, was content, like a wise and wealthy parent, to devolve on
the Cæsars, her favorite sons, the care of governing her ample patrimony. A secure and profound
peace, such as had been once enjoyed in the reign of Numa, succeeded to the tumults of a republic;
while Rome was still adored as the queen of the earth; and the subject nations still reverenced
the name of the people, and the majesty of the senate. But this native splendor," continues
Ammianus, "is degraded, and sullied, by the conduct of some nobles, who, unmindful of their
own dignity, and of that of their country, assume an unbounded license of vice and folly. They
contend with each other in the empty vanity of titles and surnames; and curiously select, or
invent, the most lofty and sonorous appellations, Reburrus, or Fabunius, Pagonius, or Tarasius,
which may impress the ears of the vulgar with astonishment and respect. The ostentation of
displaying, of magnifying, perhaps, the rent-roll of the estates which they possess in all
the provinces, from the rising to the setting sun, provokes the just resentment of every man,
who recollects, that their poor and invincible ancestors were not distinguished from the meanest
of the soldiers, by the delicacy of their food, or the splendor of their apparel. If, in these
places of mixed and general resort, they meet any of the infamous ministers of their pleasures,
they express their affection by a tender embrace; while they proudly decline the salutations
of their fellow-citizens, who are not permitted to aspire above the honor of kissing their
hands, or their knees. In these journeys into the country, the whole body of the household
marches with their master. In the same manner as the cavalry and infantry, the heavy and the
light armed troops, the advanced guard and the rear, are marshalled by the skill of their military
leaders; so the domestic officers, who bear a rod, as an ensign of authority, distribute and
arrange the numerous train of slaves and attendants. The baggage and wardrobe move in the front;
and are immediately followed by a multitude of cooks, and inferior ministers, employed in the
service of the kitchens, and of the table. The main body is composed of a promiscuous crowd
of slaves, increased by the accidental concourse of idle or dependent plebeians. The rear is
closed by the favorite band of eunuchs, distributed from age to youth, according to the order
of seniority. Their numbers and their deformity excite the horror of the indignant spectators,
who are ready to execrate the memory of Semiramis, for the cruel art which she invented, of
frustrating the purposes of nature, and of blasting in the bud the hopes of future generations.
Hospitality was formerly the virtue of the Romans; and every stranger, who could plead either
merit or misfortune, was relieved, or rewarded by their generosity. At present, if a foreigner,
perhaps of no contemptible rank, is introduced to one of the proud and wealthy senators, he
is welcomed indeed in the first audience, with such warm professions, and such kind inquiries,
that he retires, enchanted with the affability of his illustrious friend, and full of regret
that he had so long delayed his journey to Rome, the active seat of manners, as well as of
empire. Secure of a favorable reception, he repeats his visit the ensuing day, and is mortified
by the discovery, that his person, his name, and his country, are already forgotten. If he
still has resolution to persevere, he is gradually numbered in the train of dependants, and
obtains the permission to pay his assiduous and unprofitable court to a haughty patron, incapable
of gratitude or friendship; who scarcely deigns to remark his presence, his departure, or his
return. Whenever the rich prepare a solemn and popular entertainment; whenever they celebrate,
with profuse and pernicious luxury, their private banquets; the choice of the guests is the
subject of anxious deliberation. The modest, the sober, and the learned, are seldom preferred;
and the nomenclators, who are commonly swayed by interested motives, have the address to insert,
in the list of invitations, the obscure names of the most worthless of mankind. Another method
of introduction into the houses and society of the great, is derived from the profession of
gaming, or, as it is more politely styled, of play. The confederates are united by a strict
and indissoluble bond of friendship, or rather of conspiracy; a superior degree of skill in
the Tesserarian art (which may be interpreted the game of dice and tables) is a sure road to
wealth and reputation. In those palaces, sound is preferred to sense, and the care of the body
to that of the mind. It is allowed as a salutary maxim, that the light and frivolous suspicion
of a contagious malady, is of sufficient weight to excuse the visits of the most intimate friends;
and even the servants, who are despatched to make the decent inquiries, are not suffered to
return home, till they have undergone the ceremony of a previous ablution. Yet this selfish
and unmanly delicacy occasionally yields to the more imperious passion of avarice. The prospect
of gain will urge a rich and gouty senator as far as Spoleto; every sentiment of arrogance
and dignity is subdued by the hopes of an inheritance, or even of a legacy; and a wealthy childless
citizen is the most powerful of the Romans. The art of obtaining the signature of a favorable
testament, and sometimes of hastening the moment of its execution, is perfectly understood;
and it has happened, that in the same house, though in different apartments, a husband and
a wife, with the laudable design of overreaching each other, have summoned their respective
lawyers, to declare, at the same time, their mutual, but contradictory, intentions. These vices,
which degrade the moral character of the Romans, are mixed with a puerile superstition, that
disgraces their understanding. It is singular enough, that this vain credulity may often be
discovered among the profane sceptics, who impiously doubt, or deny, the existence of a celestial
power."

In populous cities, which are the seat of commerce and manufactures, the middle ranks of inhabitants,
who derive their subsistence from the dexterity or labor of their hands, are commonly the most
prolific, the most useful, and, in that sense, the most respectable part of the community.
But the plebeians of Rome, who disdained such sedentary and servile arts, had been oppressed
from the earliest times by the weight of debt and usury; and the husbandman, during the term
of his military service, was obliged to abandon the cultivation of his farm. The lands of Italy
which had been originally divided among the families of free and indigent proprietors, were
insensibly purchased or usurped by the avarice of the nobles; and in the age which preceded
the fall of the republic, it was computed that only two thousand citizens were possessed of
an independent substance. Yet as long as the people bestowed, by their suffrages, the honors
of the state, the command of the legions, and the administration of wealthy provinces, their
conscious pride alleviated in some measure, the hardships of poverty; and their wants were
seasonably supplied by the ambitious liberality of the candidates, who aspired to secure a
venal majority in the thirty-five tribes, or the hundred and ninety-three centuries, of Rome.
But when the prodigal commons had not only imprudently alienated not only the use, but the
inheritance of power, they sunk, under the reign of the Cæsars, into a vile and wretched populace,
which must, in a few generations, have been totally extinguished, if it had not been continually
recruited by the manumission of slaves, and the influx of strangers. As early as the time of
Hadrian, it was the just complaint of the ingenuous natives, that the capital had attracted
the vices of the universe, and the manners of the most opposite nations. The intemperance of
the Gauls, the cunning and levity of the Greeks, the savage obstinacy of the Egyptians and
Jews, the servile temper of the Asiatics, and the dissolute, effeminate prostitution of the
Syrians, were mingled in the various multitude, which, under the proud and false denomination
of Romans, presumed to despise their fellow-subjects, and even their sovereigns, who dwelt
beyond the precincts of the Eternal City.

Yet the name of that city was still pronounced with respect: the frequent and capricious tumults
of its inhabitants were indulged with impunity; and the successors of Constantine, instead
of crushing the last remains of the democracy by the strong arm of military power, embraced
the mild policy of Augustus, and studied to relieve the poverty, and to amuse the idleness,
of an innumerable people. I. For the convenience of the lazy plebeians, the monthly distributions
of corn were converted into a daily allowance of bread; a great number of ovens were constructed
and maintained at the public expense; and at the appointed hour, each citizen, who was furnished
with a ticket, ascended the flight of steps, which had been assigned to his peculiar quarter
or division, and received, either as a gift, or at a very low price, a loaf of bread of the
weight of three pounds, for the use of his family. II. The forest of Lucania, whose acorns
fattened large droves of wild hogs, afforded, as a species of tribute, a plentiful supply of
cheap and wholesome meat. During five months of the year, a regular allowance of bacon was
distributed to the poorer citizens; and the annual consumption of the capital, at a time when
it was much declined from its former lustre, was ascertained, by an edict from Valentinian
the Third, at three millions six hundred and twenty-eight thousand pounds. III. In the manners
of antiquity, the use of oil was indispensable for the lamp, as well as for the bath; and the
annual tax, which was imposed on Africa for the benefit of Rome, amounted to the weight of
three millions of pounds, to the measure, perhaps, of three hundred thousand English gallons.
IV. The anxiety of Augustus to provide the metropolis with sufficient plenty of corn, was not
extended beyond that necessary article of human subsistence; and when the popular clamor accused
the dearness and scarcity of wine, a proclamation was issued, by the grave reformer, to remind
his subjects that no man could reasonably complain of thirst, since the aqueducts of Agrippa
had introduced into the city so many copious streams of pure and salubrious water. This rigid
sobriety was insensibly relaxed; and, although the generous design of Aurelian does not appear
to have been executed in its full extent, the use of wine was allowed on very easy and liberal
terms. The administration of the public cellars was delegated to a magistrate of honorable
rank; and a considerable part of the vintage of Campania was reserved for the fortunate inhabitants
of Rome.

The stupendous aqueducts, so justly celebrated by the praises of Augustus himself, replenished
the Therm, or baths, which had been constructed in every part of the city, with Imperial magnificence.
The baths of Antoninus Caracalla, which were open, at stated hours, for the indiscriminate
service of the senators and the people, contained above sixteen hundred seats of marble; and
more than three thousand were reckoned in the baths of Diocletian. The walls of the lofty apartments
were covered with curious mosaics, that imitated the art of the pencil in the elegance of design,
and the variety of colors. The Egyptian granite was beautifully encrusted with the precious
green marble of Numidia; the perpetual stream of hot water was poured into the capacious basins,
through so many wide mouths of bright and massy silver; and the meanest Roman could purchase,
with a small copper coin, the daily enjoyment of a scene of pomp and luxury, which might excite
the envy of the kings of Asia. From these stately palaces issued a swarm of dirty and ragged
plebeians, without shoes and without a mantle; who loitered away whole days in the street of
Forum, to hear news and to hold disputes; who dissipated in extravagant gaming, the miserable
pittance of their wives and children; and spent the hours of the night in the obscure taverns,
and brothels, in the indulgence of gross and vulgar sensuality.

But the most lively and splendid amusement of the idle multitude, depended on the frequent
exhibition of public games and spectacles. The piety of Christian princes had suppressed the
inhuman combats of gladiators; but the Roman people still considered the Circus as their home,
their temple, and the seat of the republic. The impatient crowd rushed at the dawn of day to
secure their places, and there were many who passed a sleepless and anxious night in the adjacent
porticos. From the morning to the evening, careless of the sun, or of the rain, the spectators,
who sometimes amounted to the number of four hundred thousand, remained in eager attention;
their eyes fixed on the horses and charioteers, their minds agitated with hope and fear, for
the success of the colors which they espoused: and the happiness of Rome appeared to hang on
the event of a race. The same immoderate ardor inspired their clamors and their applause, as
often as they were entertained with the hunting of wild beasts, and the various modes of theatrical
representation. These representations in modern capitals may deserve to be considered as a
pure and elegant school of taste, and perhaps of virtue. But the Tragic and Comic Muse of the
Romans, who seldom aspired beyond the imitation of Attic genius, had been almost totally silent
since the fall of the republic; and their place was unworthily occupied by licentious farce,
effeminate music, and splendid pageantry. The pantomimes, who maintained their reputation from
the age of Augustus to the sixth century, expressed, without the use of words, the various
fables of the gods and heroes of antiquity; and the perfection of their art, which sometimes
disarmed the gravity of the philosopher, always excited the applause and wonder of the people.
The vast and magnificent theatres of Rome were filled by three thousand female dancers, and
by three thousand singers, with the masters of the respective choruses. Such was the popular
favor which they enjoyed, that, in a time of scarcity, when all strangers were banished from
the city, the merit of contributing to the public pleasures exempted them from a law, which
was strictly executed against the professors of the liberal arts.

It is said, that the foolish curiosity of Elagabalus attempted to discover, from the quantity
of spiders' webs, the number of the inhabitants of Rome. A more rational method of inquiry
might not have been undeserving of the attention of the wisest princes, who could easily have
resolved a question so important for the Roman government, and so interesting to succeeding
ages. The births and deaths of the citizens were duly registered; and if any writer of antiquity
had condescended to mention the annual amount, or the common average, we might now produce
some satisfactory calculation, which would destroy the extravagant assertions of critics, and
perhaps confirm the modest and probable conjectures of philosophers. The most diligent researches
have collected only the following circumstances; which, slight and imperfect as they are, may
tend, in some degree, to illustrate the question of the populousness of ancient Rome. I. When
the capital of the empire was besieged by the Goths, the circuit of the walls was accurately
measured, by Ammonius, the mathematician, who found it equal to twenty-one miles. It should
not be forgotten that the form of the city was almost that of a circle; the geometrical figure
which is known to contain the largest space within any given circumference. II. The architect
Vitruvius, who flourished in the Augustan age, and whose evidence, on this occasion, has peculiar
weight and authority, observes, that the innumerable habitations of the Roman people would
have spread themselves far beyond the narrow limits of the city; and that the want of ground,
which was probably contracted on every side by gardens and villas, suggested the common, though
inconvenient, practice of raising the houses to a considerable height in the air. But the loftiness
of these buildings, which often consisted of hasty work and insufficient materials, was the
cause of frequent and fatal accidents; and it was repeatedly enacted by Augustus, as well as
by Nero, that the height of private edifices within the walls of Rome, should not exceed the
measure of seventy feet from the ground. III. Juvenal laments, as it should seem from his own
experience, the hardships of the poorer citizens, to whom he addresses the salutary advice
of emigrating, without delay, from the smoke of Rome, since they might purchase, in the little
towns of Italy, a cheerful commodious dwelling, at the same price which they annually paid
for a dark and miserable lodging. House-rent was therefore immoderately dear: the rich acquired,
at an enormous expense, the ground, which they covered with palaces and gardens; but the body
of the Roman people was crowded into a narrow space; and the different floors, and apartments,
of the same house, were divided, as it is still the custom of Paris, and other cities, among
several families of plebeians. IV. The total number of houses in the fourteen regions of the
city, is accurately stated in the description of Rome, composed under the reign of Theodosius,
and they amount to forty-eight thousand three hundred and eighty-two. The two classes of domus
and of insul, into which they are divided, include all the habitations of the capital, of every
rank and condition from the marble palace of the Anicii, with a numerous establishment of freedmen
and slaves, to the lofty and narrow lodging-house, where the poet Codrus and his wife were
permitted to hire a wretched garret immediately under the files. If we adopt the same average,
which, under similar circumstances, has been found applicable to Paris, and indifferently allow
about twenty-five persons for each house, of every degree, we may fairly estimate the inhabitants
of Rome at twelve hundred thousand: a number which cannot be thought excessive for the capital
of a mighty empire, though it exceeds the populousness of the greatest cities of modern Europe.

Such was the state of Rome under the reign of Honorius; at the time when the Gothic army formed
the siege, or rather the blockade, of the city. By a skilful disposition of his numerous forces,
who impatiently watched the moment of an assault, Alaric encompassed the walls, commanded the
twelve principal gates, intercepted all communication with the adjacent country, and vigilantly
guarded the navigation of the Tyber, from which the Romans derived the surest and most plentiful
supply of provisions. The first emotions of the nobles, and of the people, were those of surprise
and indignation, that a vile Barbarian should dare to insult the capital of the world: but
their arrogance was soon humbled by misfortune; and their unmanly rage, instead of being directed
against an enemy in arms, was meanly exercised on a defenceless and innocent victim. Perhaps
in the person of Serena, the Romans might have respected the niece of Theodosius, the aunt,
nay, even the adoptive mother, of the reigning emperor: but they abhorred the widow of Stilicho;
and they listened with credulous passion to the tale of calumny, which accused her of maintaining
a secret and criminal correspondence with the Gothic invader. Actuated, or overawed, by the
same popular frenzy, the senate, without requiring any evidence of his guilt, pronounced the
sentence of her death. Serena was ignominiously strangled; and the infatuated multitude were
astonished to find, that this cruel act of injustice did not immediately produce the retreat
of the Barbarians, and the deliverance of the city. That unfortunate city gradually experienced
the distress of scarcity, and at length the horrid calamities of famine. The daily allowance
of three pounds of bread was reduced to one half, to one third, to nothing; and the price of
corn still continued to rise in a rapid and extravagant proportion. The poorer citizens, who
were unable to purchase the necessaries of life, solicited the precarious charity of the rich;
and for a while the public misery was alleviated by the humanity of Læta, the widow of the
emperor Gratian, who had fixed her residence at Rome, and consecrated to the use of the indigent
the princely revenue which she annually received from the grateful successors of her husband.
But these private and temporary donatives were insufficient to appease the hunger of a numerous
people; and the progress of famine invaded the marble palaces of the senators themselves. The
persons of both sexes, who had been educated in the enjoyment of ease and luxury, discovered
how little is requisite to supply the demands of nature; and lavished their unavailing treasures
of gold and silver, to obtain the coarse and scanty sustenance which they would formerly have
rejected with disdain. The food the most repugnant to sense or imagination, the aliments the
most unwholesome and pernicious to the constitution, were eagerly devoured, and fiercely disputed,
by the rage of hunger. A dark suspicion was entertained, that some desperate wretches fed on
the bodies of their fellow-creatures, whom they had secretly murdered; and even mothers, (such
was the horrid conflict of the two most powerful instincts implanted by nature in the human
breast,) even mothers are said to have tasted the flesh of their slaughtered infants! Many
thousands of the inhabitants of Rome expired in their houses, or in the streets, for want of
sustenance; and as the public sepulchres without the walls were in the power of the enemy the
stench, which arose from so many putrid and unburied carcasses, infected the air; and the miseries
of famine were succeeded and aggravated by the contagion of a pestilential disease. The assurances
of speedy and effectual relief, which were repeatedly transmitted from the court of Ravenna,
supported for some time, the fainting resolution of the Romans, till at length the despair
of any human aid tempted them to accept the offers of a præternatural deliverance. Pompeianus,
præfect of the city, had been persuaded, by the art or fanaticism of some Tuscan diviners,
that, by the mysterious force of spells and sacrifices, they could extract the lightning from
the clouds, and point those celestial fires against the camp of the Barbarians. The important
secret was communicated to Innocent, the bishop of Rome; and the successor of St. Peter is
accused, perhaps without foundation, of preferring the safety of the republic to the rigid
severity of the Christian worship. But when the question was agitated in the senate; when it
was proposed, as an essential condition, that those sacrifices should be performed in the Capitol,
by the authority, and in the presence, of the magistrates, the majority of that respectable
assembly, apprehensive either of the Divine or of the Imperial displeasure, refused to join
in an act, which appeared almost equivalent to the public restoration of Paganism.

The last resource of the Romans was in the clemency, or at least in the moderation, of the
king of the Goths. The senate, who in this emergency assumed the supreme powers of government,
appointed two ambassadors to negotiate with the enemy. This important trust was delegated to
Basilius, a senator, of Spanish extraction, and already conspicuous in the administration of
provinces; and to John, the first tribune of the notaries, who was peculiarly qualified, by
his dexterity in business, as well as by his former intimacy with the Gothic prince. When they
were introduced into his presence, they declared, perhaps in a more lofty style than became
their abject condition, that the Romans were resolved to maintain their dignity, either in
peace or war; and that, if Alaric refused them a fair and honorable capitulation, he might
sound his trumpets, and prepare to give battle to an innumerable people, exercised in arms,
and animated by despair. "The thicker the hay, the easier it is mowed," was the concise reply
of the Barbarian; and this rustic metaphor was accompanied by a loud and insulting laugh, expressive
of his contempt for the menaces of an unwarlike populace, enervated by luxury before they were
emaciated by famine. He then condescended to fix the ransom, which he would accept as the price
of his retreat from the walls of Rome: all the gold and silver in the city, whether it were
the property of the state, or of individuals; all the rich and precious movables; and all the
slaves that could prove their title to the name of Barbarians. The ministers of the senate
presumed to ask, in a modest and suppliant tone, "If such, O king, are your demands, what do
you intend to leave us?" "Your Lives!" replied the haughty conqueror: they trembled, and retired.
Yet, before they retired, a short suspension of arms was granted, which allowed some time for
a more temperate negotiation. The stern features of Alaric were insensibly relaxed; he abated
much of the rigor of his terms; and at length consented to raise the siege, on the immediate
payment of five thousand pounds of gold, of thirty thousand pounds of silver, of four thousand
robes of silk, of three thousand pieces of fine scarlet cloth, and of three thousand pounds
weight of pepper. But the public treasury was exhausted; the annual rents of the great estates
in Italy and the provinces, had been exchanged, during the famine, for the vilest sustenance;
the hoards of secret wealth were still concealed by the obstinacy of avarice; and some remains
of consecrated spoils afforded the only resource that could avert the impending ruin of the
city. As soon as the Romans had satisfied the rapacious demands of Alaric, they were restored,
in some measure, to the enjoyment of peace and plenty. Several of the gates were cautiously
opened; the importation of provisions from the river and the adjacent country was no longer
obstructed by the Goths; the citizens resorted in crowds to the free market, which was held
during three days in the suburbs; and while the merchants who undertook this gainful trade
made a considerable profit, the future subsistence of the city was secured by the ample magazines
which were deposited in the public and private granaries. A more regular discipline than could
have been expected, was maintained in the camp of Alaric; and the wise Barbarian justified
his regard for the faith of treaties, by the just severity with which he chastised a party
of licentious Goths, who had insulted some Roman citizens on the road to Ostia. His army, enriched
by the contributions of the capital, slowly advanced into the fair and fruitful province of
Tuscany, where he proposed to establish his winter quarters; and the Gothic standard became
the refuge of forty thousand Barbarian slaves, who had broke their chains, and aspired, under
the command of their great deliverer, to revenge the injuries and the disgrace of their cruel
servitude. About the same time, he received a more honorable reenforcement of Goths and Huns,
whom Adolphus, the brother of his wife, had conducted, at his pressing invitation, from the
banks of the Danube to those of the Tyber, and who had cut their way, with some difficulty
and loss, through the superior number of the Imperial troops.

At the distance of fourteen centuries, we may be satisfied with relating the military exploits
of the conquerors of Rome, without presuming to investigate the motives of their political
conduct. In the midst of his apparent prosperity, Alaric was conscious, perhaps, of some secret
weakness, some internal defect; or perhaps the moderation which he displayed, was intended
only to deceive and disarm the easy credulity of the ministers of Honorius. The king of the
Goths repeatedly declared, that it was his desire to be considered as the friend of peace,
and of the Romans. Three senators, at his earnest request, were sent ambassadors to the court
of Ravenna, to solicit the exchange of hostages, and the conclusion of the treaty; and the
proposals, which he more clearly expressed during the course of the negotiations, could only
inspire a doubt of his sincerity, as they might seem inadequate to the state of his fortune.
The Barbarian still aspired to the rank of master-general of the armies of the West; he stipulated
an annual subsidy of corn and money; and he chose the provinces of Dalmatia, Noricum, and Venetia,
for the seat of his new kingdom, which would have commanded the important communication between
Italy and the Danube. If these modest terms should be rejected, Alaric showed a disposition
to relinquish his pecuniary demands, and even to content himself with the possession of Noricum;
an exhausted and impoverished country, perpetually exposed to the inroads of the Barbarians
of Germany. But the hopes of peace were disappointed by the weak obstinacy, or interested views,
of the minister Olympius. Without listening to the salutary remonstrances of the senate, he
dismissed their ambassadors under the conduct of a military escort, too numerous for a retinue
of honor, and too feeble for any army of defence. Six thousand Dalmatians, the flower of the
Imperial legions, were ordered to march from Ravenna to Rome, through an open country which
was occupied by the formidable myriads of the Barbarians. These brave legionaries, encompassed
and betrayed, fell a sacrifice to ministerial folly; their general, Valens, with a hundred
soldiers, escaped from the field of battle; and one of the ambassadors, who could no longer
claim the protection of the law of nations, was obliged to purchase his freedom with a ransom
of thirty thousand pieces of gold. Yet Alaric, instead of resenting this act of impotent hostility,
immediately renewed his proposals of peace; and the second embassy of the Roman senate, which
derived weight and dignity from the presence of Innocent, bishop of the city, was guarded from
the dangers of the road by a detachment of Gothic soldiers.

Olympius might have continued to insult the just resentment of a people who loudly accused
him as the author of the public calamities; but his power was undermined by the secret intrigues
of the palace. The favorite eunuchs transferred the government of Honorius, and the empire,
to Jovius, the Prætorian præfect; an unworthy servant, who did not atone, by the merit of personal
attachment, for the errors and misfortunes of his administration. The exile, or escape, of
the guilty Olympius, reserved him for more vicissitudes of fortune: he experienced the adventures
of an obscure and wandering life; he again rose to power; he fell a second time into disgrace;
his ears were cut off; he expired under the lash; and his ignominious death afforded a grateful
spectacle to the friends of Stilicho. After the removal of Olympius, whose character was deeply
tainted with religious fanaticism, the Pagans and heretics were delivered from the impolitic
proscription, which excluded them from the dignities of the state. The brave Gennerid, a soldier
of Barbarian origin, who still adhered to the worship of his ancestors, had been obliged to
lay aside the military belt: and though he was repeatedly assured by the emperor himself, that
laws were not made for persons of his rank or merit, he refused to accept any partial dispensation,
and persevered in honorable disgrace, till he had extorted a general act of justice from the
distress of the Roman government. The conduct of Gennerid in the important station to which
he was promoted or restored, of master-general of Dalmatia, Pannonia, Noricum, and Rhætia,
seemed to revive the discipline and spirit of the republic. From a life of idleness and want,
his troops were soon habituated to severe exercise and plentiful subsistence; and his private
generosity often supplied the rewards, which were denied by the avarice, or poverty, of the
court of Ravenna. The valor of Gennerid, formidable to the adjacent Barbarians, was the firmest
bulwark of the Illyrian frontier; and his vigilant care assisted the empire with a reenforcement
of ten thousand Huns, who arrived on the confines of Italy, attended by such a convoy of provisions,
and such a numerous train of sheep and oxen, as might have been sufficient, not only for the
march of an army, but for the settlement of a colony. But the court and councils of Honorius
still remained a scene of weakness and distraction, of corruption and anarchy. Instigated by
the præfect Jovius, the guards rose in furious mutiny, and demanded the heads of two generals,
and of the two principal eunuchs. The generals, under a perfidious promise of safety, were
sent on shipboard, and privately executed; while the favor of the eunuchs procured them a mild
and secure exile at Milan and Constantinople. Eusebius the eunuch, and the Barbarian Allobich,
succeeded to the command of the bed-chamber and of the guards; and the mutual jealousy of these
subordinate ministers was the cause of their mutual destruction. By the insolent order of the
count of the domestics, the great chamberlain was shamefully beaten to death with sticks, before
the eyes of the astonished emperor; and the subsequent assassination of Allobich, in the midst
of a public procession, is the only circumstance of his life, in which Honorius discovered
the faintest symptom of courage or resentment. Yet before they fell, Eusebius and Allobich
had contributed their part to the ruin of the empire, by opposing the conclusion of a treaty
which Jovius, from a selfish, and perhaps a criminal, motive, had negotiated with Alaric, in
a personal interview under the walls of Rimini. During the absence of Jovius, the emperor was
persuaded to assume a lofty tone of inflexible dignity, such as neither his situation, nor
his character, could enable him to support; and a letter, signed with the name of Honorius,
was immediately despatched to the Prætorian præfect, granting him a free permission to dispose
of the public money, but sternly refusing to prostitute the military honors of Rome to the
proud demands of a Barbarian. This letter was imprudently communicated to Alaric himself; and
the Goth, who in the whole transaction had behaved with temper and decency, expressed, in the
most outrageous language, his lively sense of the insult so wantonly offered to his person
and to his nation. The conference of Rimini was hastily interrupted; and the præfect Jovius,
on his return to Ravenna, was compelled to adopt, and even to encourage, the fashionable opinions
of the court. By his advice and example, the principal officers of the state and army were
obliged to swear, that, without listening, in any circumstances, to any conditions of peace,
they would still persevere in perpetual and implacable war against the enemy of the republic.
This rash engagement opposed an insuperable bar to all future negotiation. The ministers of
Honorius were heard to declare, that, if they had only invoked the name of the Deity, they
would consult the public safety, and trust their souls to the mercy of Heaven: but they had
sworn by the sacred head of the emperor himself; they had sworn by the sacred head of the emperor
himself; they had touched, in solemn ceremony, that august seat of majesty and wisdom; and
the violation of their oath would expose them to the temporal penalties of sacrilege and rebellion.

While the emperor and his court enjoyed, with sullen pride, the security of the marches and
fortifications of Ravenna, they abandoned Rome, almost without defence, to the resentment of
Alaric. Yet such was the moderation which he still preserved, or affected, that, as he moved
with his army along the Flaminian way, he successively despatched the bishops of the towns
of Italy to reiterate his offers of peace, and to conjure the emperor, that he would save the
city and its inhabitants from hostile fire, and the sword of the Barbarians. These impending
calamities were, however, averted, not indeed by the wisdom of Honorius, but by the prudence
or humanity of the Gothic king; who employed a milder, though not less effectual, method of
conquest. Instead of assaulting the capital, he successfully directed his efforts against the
Port of Ostia, one of the boldest and most stupendous works of Roman magnificence. The accidents
to which the precarious subsistence of the city was continually exposed in a winter navigation,
and an open road, had suggested to the genius of the first Cæsar the useful design, which was
executed under the reign of Claudius. The artificial moles, which formed the narrow entrance,
advanced far into the sea, and firmly repelled the fury of the waves, while the largest vessels
securely rode at anchor within three deep and capacious basins, which received the northern
branch of the Tyber, about two miles from the ancient colony of Ostia. The Roman Port insensibly
swelled to the size of an episcopal city, where the corn of Africa was deposited in spacious
granaries for the use of the capital. As soon as Alaric was in possession of that important
place, he summoned the city to surrender at discretion; and his demands were enforced by the
positive declaration, that a refusal, or even a delay, should be instantly followed by the
destruction of the magazines, on which the life of the Roman people depended. The clamors of
that people, and the terror of famine, subdued the pride of the senate; they listened, without
reluctance, to the proposal of placing a new emperor on the throne of the unworthy Honorius;
and the suffrage of the Gothic conqueror bestowed the purple on Attalus, præfect of the city.
The grateful monarch immediately acknowledged his protector as master-general of the armies
of the West; Adolphus, with the rank of count of the domestics, obtained the custody of the
person of Attalus; and the two hostile nations seemed to be united in the closest bands of
friendship and alliance.

The gates of the city were thrown open, and the new emperor of the Romans, encompassed on every
side by the Gothic arms, was conducted, in tumultuous procession, to the palace of Augustus
and Trajan. After he had distributed the civil and military dignities among his favorites and
followers, Attalus convened an assembly of the senate; before whom, in a format and florid
speech, he asserted his resolution of restoring the majesty of the republic, and of uniting
to the empire the provinces of Egypt and the East, which had once acknowledged the sovereignty
of Rome. Such extravagant promises inspired every reasonable citizen with a just contempt for
the character of an unwarlike usurper, whose elevation was the deepest and most ignominious
wound which the republic had yet sustained from the insolence of the Barbarians. But the populace,
with their usual levity, applauded the change of masters. The public discontent was favorable
to the rival of Honorius; and the sectaries, oppressed by his persecuting edicts, expected
some degree of countenance, or at least of toleration, from a prince, who, in his native country
of Ionia, had been educated in the Pagan superstition, and who had since received the sacrament
of baptism from the hands of an Arian bishop. The first days of the reign of Attalus were fair
and prosperous. An officer of confidence was sent with an inconsiderable body of troops to
secure the obedience of Africa; the greatest part of Italy submitted to the terror of the Gothic
powers; and though the city of Bologna made a vigorous and effectual resistance, the people
of Milan, dissatisfied perhaps with the absence of Honorius, accepted, with loud acclamations,
the choice of the Roman senate. At the head of a formidable army, Alaric conducted his royal
captive almost to the gates of Ravenna; and a solemn embassy of the principal ministers, of
Jovius, the Prætorian præfect, of Valens, master of the cavalry and infantry, of the quæstor
Potamius, and of Julian, the first of the notaries, was introduced, with martial pomp, into
the Gothic camp. In the name of their sovereign, they consented to acknowledge the lawful election
of his competitor, and to divide the provinces of Italy and the West between the two emperors.
Their proposals were rejected with disdain; and the refusal was aggravated by the insulting
clemency of Attalus, who condescended to promise, that, if Honorius would instantly resign
the purple, he should be permitted to pass the remainder of his life in the peaceful exile
of some remote island. So desperate indeed did the situation of the son of Theodosius appear,
to those who were the best acquainted with his strength and resources, that Jovius and Valens,
his minister and his general, betrayed their trust, infamously deserted the sinking cause of
their benefactor, and devoted their treacherous allegiance to the service of his more fortunate
rival. Astonished by such examples of domestic treason, Honorius trembled at the approach of
every servant, at the arrival of every messenger. He dreaded the secret enemies, who might
lurk in his capital, his palace, his bed-chamber; and some ships lay ready in the harbor of
Ravenna, to transport the abdicated monarch to the dominions of his infant nephew, the emperor
of the East.

But there is a Providence (such at least was the opinion of the historian Procopius) that watches
over innocence and folly; and the pretensions of Honorius to its peculiar care cannot reasonably
be disputed. At the moment when his despair, incapable of any wise or manly resolution, meditated
a shameful flight, a seasonable reenforcement of four thousand veterans unexpectedly landed
in the port of Ravenna. To these valiant strangers, whose fidelity had not been corrupted by
the factions of the court, he committed the walls and gates of the city; and the slumbers of
the emperor were no longer disturbed by the apprehension of imminent and internal danger. The
favorable intelligence which was received from Africa suddenly changed the opinions of men,
and the state of public affairs. The troops and officers, whom Attalus had sent into that province,
were defeated and slain; and the active zeal of Heraclian maintained his own allegiance, and
that of his people. The faithful count of Africa transmitted a large sum of money, which fixed
the attachment of the Imperial guards; and his vigilance, in preventing the exportation of
corn and oil, introduced famine, tumult, and discontent, into the walls of Rome. The failure
of the African expedition was the source of mutual complaint and recrimination in the party
of Attalus; and the mind of his protector was insensibly alienated from the interest of a prince,
who wanted spirit to command, or docility to obey. The most imprudent measures were adopted,
without the knowledge, or against the advice, of Alaric; and the obstinate refusal of the senate,
to allow, in the embarkation, the mixture even of five hundred Goths, betrayed a suspicious
and distrustful temper, which, in their situation, was neither generous nor prudent. The resentment
of the Gothic king was exasperated by the malicious arts of Jovius, who had been raised to
the rank of patrician, and who afterwards excused his double perfidy, by declaring, without
a blush, that he had only seemed to abandon the service of Honorius, more effectually to ruin
the cause of the usurper. In a large plain near Rimini, and in the presence of an innumerable
multitude of Romans and Barbarians, the wretched Attalus was publicly despoiled of the diadem
and purple; and those ensigns of royalty were sent by Alaric, as the pledge of peace and friendship,
to the son of Theodosius. The officers who returned to their duty, were reinstated in their
employments, and even the merit of a tardy repentance was graciously allowed; but the degraded
emperor of the Romans, desirous of life, and insensible of disgrace, implored the permission
of following the Gothic camp, in the train of a haughty and capricious Barbarian.

The degradation of Attalus removed the only real obstacle to the conclusion of the peace; and
Alaric advanced within three miles of Ravenna, to press the irresolution of the Imperial ministers,
whose insolence soon returned with the return of fortune. His indignation was kindled by the
report, that a rival chieftain, that Sarus, the personal enemy of Adolphus, and the hereditary
foe of the house of Balti, had been received into the palace. At the head of three hundred
followers, that fearless Barbarian immediately sallied from the gates of Ravenna; surprised,
and cut in pieces, a considerable body of Goths; reentered the city in triumph; and was permitted
to insult his adversary, by the voice of a herald, who publicly declared that the guilt of
Alaric had forever excluded him from the friendship and alliance of the emperor. The crime
and folly of the court of Ravenna was expiated, a third time, by the calamities of Rome. The
king of the Goths, who no longer dissembled his appetite for plunder and revenge, appeared
in arms under the walls of the capital; and the trembling senate, without any hopes of relief,
prepared, by a desperate resistance, to defray the ruin of their country. But they were unable
to guard against the secret conspiracy of their slaves and domestics; who, either from birth
or interest, were attached to the cause of the enemy. At the hour of midnight, the Salarian
gate was silently opened, and the inhabitants were awakened by the tremendous sound of the
Gothic trumpet.

The proclamation of Alaric, when he forced his entrance into a vanquished city, discovered,
however, some regard for the laws of humanity and religion. He encouraged his troops boldly
to seize the rewards of valor, and to enrich themselves with the spoils of a wealthy and effeminate
people: but he exhorted them, at the same time, to spare the lives of the unresisting citizens,
and to respect the churches of the apostles, St. Peter and St. Paul, as holy and inviolable
sanctuaries. Amidst the horrors of a nocturnal tumult, several of the Christian Goths displayed
the fervor of a recent conversion; and some instances of their uncommon piety and moderation
are related, and perhaps adorned, by the zeal of ecclesiastical writers. While the Barbarians
roamed through the city in quest of prey, the humble dwelling of an aged virgin, who had devoted
her life to the service of the altar, was forced open by one of the powerful Goths. He immediately
demanded, though in civil language, all the gold and silver in her possession; and was astonished
at the readiness with which she conducted him to a splendid hoard of massy plate, of the richest
materials, and the most curious workmanship. The Barbarian viewed with wonder and delight this
valuable acquisition, till he was interrupted by a serious admonition, addressed to him in
the following words: "These," said she, "are the consecrated vessels belonging to St. Peter:
if you presume to touch them, the sacrilegious deed will remain on your conscience. For my
part, I dare not keep what I am unable to defend." The Gothic captain, struck with reverential
awe, despatched a messenger to inform the king of the treasure which he had discovered; and
received a peremptory order from Alaric, that all the consecrated plate and ornaments should
be transported, without damage or delay, to the church of the apostle. From the extremity,
perhaps, of the Quirinal hill, to the distant quarter of the Vatican, a numerous detachment
of Goths, marching in order of battle through the principal streets, protected, with glittering
arms, the long train of their devout companions, who bore aloft, on their heads, the sacred
vessels of gold and silver; and the martial shouts of the Barbarians were mingled with the
sound of religious psalmody. From all the adjacent houses, a crowd of Christians hastened to
join this edifying procession; and a multitude of fugitives, without distinction of age, or
rank, or even of sect, had the good fortune to escape to the secure and hospitable sanctuary
of the Vatican. The learned work, concerning the City of God, was professedly composed by St.
Augustin, to justify the ways of Providence in the destruction of the Roman greatness. He celebrates,
with peculiar satisfaction, this memorable triumph of Christ; and insults his adversaries,
by challenging them to produce some similar example of a town taken by storm, in which the
fabulous gods of antiquity had been able to protect either themselves or their deluded votaries.

In the sack of Rome, some rare and extraordinary examples of Barbarian virtue have been deservedly
applauded. But the holy precincts of the Vatican, and the apostolic churches, could receive
a very small proportion of the Roman people; many thousand warriors, more especially of the
Huns, who served under the standard of Alaric, were strangers to the name, or at least to the
faith, of Christ; and we may suspect, without any breach of charity or candor, that in the
hour of savage license, when every passion was inflamed, and every restraint was removed, the
precepts of the Gospel seldom influenced the behavior of the Gothic Christians. The writers,
the best disposed to exaggerate their clemency, have freely confessed, that a cruel slaughter
was made of the Romans; and that the streets of the city were filled with dead bodies, which
remained without burial during the general consternation. The despair of the citizens was sometimes
converted into fury: and whenever the Barbarians were provoked by opposition, they extended
the promiscuous massacre to the feeble, the innocent, and the helpless. The private revenge
of forty thousand slaves was exercised without pity or remorse; and the ignominious lashes,
which they had formerly received, were washed away in the blood of the guilty, or obnoxious,
families. The matrons and virgins of Rome were exposed to injuries more dreadful, in the apprehension
of chastity, than death itself; and the ecclesiastical historian has selected an example of
female virtue, for the admiration of future ages. A Roman lady, of singular beauty and orthodox
faith, had excited the impatient desires of a young Goth, who, according to the sagacious remark
of Sozomen, was attached to the Arian heresy. Exasperated by her obstinate resistance, he drew
his sword, and, with the anger of a lover, slightly wounded her neck. The bleeding heroine
still continued to brave his resentment, and to repel his love, till the ravisher desisted
from his unavailing efforts, respectfully conducted her to the sanctuary of the Vatican, and
gave six pieces of gold to the guards of the church, on condition that they should restore
her inviolate to the arms of her husband. Such instances of courage and generosity were not
extremely common. The brutal soldiers satisfied their sensual appetites, without consulting
either the inclination or the duties of their female captives: and a nice question of casuistry
was seriously agitated, Whether those tender victims, who had inflexibly refused their consent
to the violation which they sustained, had lost, by their misfortune, the glorious crown of
virginity. Their were other losses indeed of a more substantial kind, and more general concern.
It cannot be presumed, that all the Barbarians were at all times capable of perpetrating such
amorous outrages; and the want of youth, or beauty, or chastity, protected the greatest part
of the Roman women from the danger of a rape. But avarice is an insatiate and universal passion;
since the enjoyment of almost every object that can afford pleasure to the different tastes
and tempers of mankind may be procured by the possession of wealth. In the pillage of Rome,
a just preference was given to gold and jewels, which contain the greatest value in the smallest
compass and weight: but, after these portable riches had been removed by the more diligent
robbers, the palaces of Rome were rudely stripped of their splendid and costly furniture. The
sideboards of massy plate, and the variegated wardrobes of silk and purple, were irregularly
piled in the wagons, that always followed the march of a Gothic army. The most exquisite works
of art were roughly handled, or wantonly destroyed; many a statue was melted for the sake of
the precious materials; and many a vase, in the division of the spoil, was shivered into fragments
by the stroke of a battle-axe. The acquisition of riches served only to stimulate the avarice
of the rapacious Barbarians, who proceeded, by threats, by blows, and by tortures, to force
from their prisoners the confession of hidden treasure. Visible splendor and expense were alleged
as the proof of a plentiful fortune; the appearance of poverty was imputed to a parsimonious
disposition; and the obstinacy of some misers, who endured the most cruel torments before they
would discover the secret object of their affection, was fatal to many unhappy wretches, who
expired under the lash, for refusing to reveal their imaginary treasures. The edifices of Rome,
though the damage has been much exaggerated, received some injury from the violence of the
Goths. At their entrance through the Salarian gate, they fired the adjacent houses to guide
their march, and to distract the attention of the citizens; the flames, which encountered no
obstacle in the disorder of the night, consumed many private and public buildings; and the
ruins of the palace of Sallust remained, in the age of Justinian, a stately monument of the
Gothic conflagration. Yet a contemporary historian has observed, that fire could scarcely consume
the enormous beams of solid brass, and that the strength of man was insufficient to subvert
the foundations of ancient structures. Some truth may possibly be concealed in his devout assertion,
that the wrath of Heaven supplied the imperfections of hostile rage; and that the proud Forum
of Rome, decorated with the statues of so many gods and heroes, was levelled in the dust by
the stroke of lightning. But it was not easy to compute the multitudes, who, from an honorable
station and a prosperous fortune, were suddenly reduced to the miserable condition of captives
and exiles. As the Barbarians had more occasion for money than for slaves, they fixed at a
moderate price the redemption of their indigent prisoners; and the ransom was often paid by
the benevolence of their friends, or the charity of strangers. The captives, who were regularly
sold, either in open market, or by private contract, would have legally regained their native
freedom, which it was impossible for a citizen to lose, or to alienate. But as it was soon
discovered that the vindication of their liberty would endanger their lives; and that the Goths,
unless they were tempted to sell, might be provoked to murder, their useless prisoners; the
civil jurisprudence had been already qualified by a wise regulation, that they should be obliged
to serve the moderate term of five years, till they had discharged by their labor the price
of their redemption. The nations who invaded the Roman empire, had driven before them, into
Italy, whole troops of hungry and affrighted provincials, less apprehensive of servitude than
of famine. The calamities of Rome and Italy dispersed the inhabitants to the most lonely, the
most secure, the most distant places of refuge. If we call a set rules for exactly a whole formed
a perfect work of art, the French tragedy before any other preference. Strictly measured time and
place. Each verse, each word is on the ground floor judges, no fixed rules for once let go of the offense.
So-called laws of affluence, more than any other nation knows them, bind the poet as the actor.
Both are allowed to move only in sharply drawn barriers. The way this laborious work of art brought
forth to hide is in astonishment, excited admiration, but we remain without participation in it, and
a chill, the boredom, we want to call reluctance, takes possession of us. The positions of
the most famous actors, beautiful and artistically, as they are remembered, but always to those
academic figures that we find on the French paintings, and which is also its best masters are
unable to free itself entirely to. the tragedy is not the spirit of spirit of the nation, by
readily took everything, always always about what the fate of mortals may impose. The language itself,
its lack of tone resists, the higher poetry, resists every declamation. Everything is simply art produced
by, it is as we heard one of the ingeniously formed singers, but the nature of a sonorous voice
failed. In contrast, the higher comedy Frenchman is on the first stage. As is conversational
spirit, life, wit, humor and finely formed to take, which in ordinary life before him all the nations
also characterized. The English theater is on the very opposite point. No rule limits the poet,
not the actor. Unbound leave both of them their genius. Everything is for the poet to bid, verse and
prose, perpetual change of scene, extension of time to infinity,
all possible motives.

How difficult it was to unrestricted violence the right to make use of this, lack teaches of
good new tragedies, only Shakespeare's giant spirit was able to right to apply for, he still stands
alone, the people revered him as its only poets and forces itself tirelessly to his masterpieces.
The English comedy is a faithful, often somewhat overloaded picture of domestic and social life,
the mistakes of the virtues of the absurdities that one meets in the various booths. The peculiarities
of the various provinces, the Scots and Irishmen, especially of their dialects, increase the
comic, and many of them are represented with fidelity. character
comedies, such as French, whose own mastery of the one in which everything
revolves around a role that every detail is lifted up by the British
did not know.

Therefore, all pieces are full of people who are caricatures appear, but the original people are
not in this. Only the strongest features a slightly flattened and softened, and one meets everywhere
in social life, the archetypes of this. Even with the better of the drawn cartoons, which we sometimes
delighting in Germany, this is already the case, similarity is based
on more and nearly so not use other trains overloaded, as they probably
believe in foreign countries.

As austere one else in England, in all circles, the men and women are mixed in, decency and keep
up, so it is lenient in this respect on the stage . Women in social life away from her delicacy every
offensive word indignant only see scenes, each of which French anger would turn away and certainly the Parisian
public with the most decisive indignation aufnähme that. The English tragedian plays more natural
than the French, fiery than the German.

Faithfully copying nature, and often exceeds the limit of the beautiful. The most savage expression
of suffering, even the loud cry of physical pain, all distortions of madness, convulsive twitching
of the dying, nothing will be adopted in the audience, which is the
highest art to see and believe this all in with bristling hair, then
the loudest applause breaks out in, if terror shudder.

The biggest of the theater, forces the actors to speak loudly, because the sailor sitting in the
furthest corner wants for his sixpence so good to hear everything and hear as the noblest lady in
the first box. Significant debate is therefore the first requirement, which English public to the
actor to do that. This must, therefore, with the utmost effort, every word, every syllable stress
repulsive.

If the mediocre artists bring this very unpleasant, often produces a ludicrous effect, with only the
best of them do an incredible effort to combat this difficulty. But even the better actors stand
out tirades certain what patriotism, freedom and nationality have to respect and which they know beforehand
that the audience applauded each time she. These posts are addressed to all the same, and the
players during such a major action did not followed their time comes again later. Term way of the actors
declaimed from his speech.

Between every sentence is a sufficient applause break for the left, then gone on, then speak up, so that
the whole thing as a melodrama looks, to which the audience provides the accompaniment. The English
declamation already has its own singing tone, with little modulation something the stranger affected seeming
pathetic, which can not be described, in some attention but it can be found in common life again,
each time by passion elevated conversation.

It is the English language's own melody, and each language has their own. In the comic , especially
in the mockery that surpass the English perhaps all other nations.

Even the well-known congenital seriousness of these people makes his rare gaiety more amusing.
The jokes are not always the finest, most often a little broad and crude, but they irritate irresistible
laugh; some actors, such Munden [Footnote: Joseph, a popular comedian, by contemporary critics,
however, limiting assessed grimaces as Schneider.] need to show themselves only, and the house
shakes down to its lowest due to the rushing, loudest joy. A lot will say this in a nation that
keeps the laughter of indecent and educated more than a smile only allowed. Here is victorious
nature, supported by the Arts and control and coercion are forgotten.

Operas are rarely given, an English recitative is unthinkable, and the Englishman is the alternation
of speech and song unnatural. The people love all the music bit. But sometimes you play as a postlude some
small opera, and there is no lack of good singers, in order for an English ear perform quite pleasant.
The English audience in the theater this deserves a separate chapter,
because it is unique in the world.

How about the wooden world despotic reigns, of which one has no concept throughout Europe, including
in France is not where you have the patience of the Germans is far away yet. Often, we admit it when
we saw how much the German fallen leaves his audience favorites from, we wish them only a few months on
the English stage, they recognize that learned how good it is to them at home. On the whole,
the method can not fully justify these islanders. All too softly spoken word, any neglect, any
hesitation is punished mercilessly, only to be debuting shows great patience and cheers them on in every
way. Hence it was, however, that we never saw a London actor, who had learned his role is not.
The prompter with all its destructive illusion box is completely banned from the stage, but quite
hidden from the audience, stand on both sides in the wings Einhelfer
to read for themselves busy and the actor come to the aid of a makeshift,
even if this leaves his memory.

As everywhere, has also the highest peak located on part of the audience, the loudest voice,
every song, every aria, which these sublime like, have two or three times to be sung often. And
they like a lot. Even the proud Billington had to put up with in our presence, aria and a duet
to sing twice a bravura.

Where a restlessness, a dispute on the ground or in the gallery,
is ill and someone has to be taken away, just ring out from above
the order to the actor, pause, until the peace restored or the troublemaker
is thrown out.

Sometimes noise is the so bad that the actors have to leave the theater this, with the return
they are clapping greeted with, and exactly where they stopped, they start again. As for all this,
the illusion of standing around, so nobody cares and the main thing
is that each of his money all see and hear, what to see and hear there.

Sometimes actors and the audience. A sailor came as we were just in the theater, once on the idea
of an interlude in a song to sing. Just silence was commanded from above, and all obeyed. The sailor
sang for what he was good enough and with a very tolerable voice,
while quite fearless, though his audience some of the chiefs of the
empire consisted.

He found much applause and should sing again. Now he wanted to be
nice to do it, exceeded his powers and threw on a roll formally in
the middle.

A general laughter ended for the time the scene. Bodies of the two major theaters in London in terms
of the audience at half past six clock should start any idea, but it will almost always seven
clock, and these hours is still too early for an audience on average only about six clock and often
far later fed to noon. The shows take so long that each patient must be weary not English. Rarely
one comes home before midnight. In short, now is not even a symbol of the British: they all love
long sessions in Parliament, at the table and also in the theater every night need. Two pieces
are given, one of five acts and an epilogue, which is often two to
has three elevators.

Usually played last any farce, rarely a little opera, often some of the new English novels
replicas of absurdity full of night and horror. Whether the night game for the first piece suit
is chosen by the way, if it is not with that aroused by sensations to the most glaring contrasts
- that nobody cares, enough, the audience gets a full measure for his money. Both major theater of Drury
Lane and Covent Garden are a month from September to late Junius open, then they are closed
and the small summer theater to come to the Haymarket series. In May and June are the most
benefit performances for the older and better actors given, they are among their content. Then
these ideas often last until after a clock for because of perfectly good to entertain the audience,
it still pushes all sorts of little things in the interludes, sometimes
a little song, a dance soon.

This usually like the high audience, have two to three times and will take time. The lodges are spacious
and designed so that one can see well from all the same.

They contain all of several rows of benches, one above the rise, so it is also in the pit, which
without any floor or ground floor noble, orchestra until the end of the house stretches from. In all rows
of boxes places are to be six shillings paid the same, the ground floor will cost a little
more than half. About the boxes to collect two more galleries, and one to two shillings a person, and
high the last gallery entirely in the background tower above, invisible, the respectable
people, we just told us, set the tone usually. Low departments separate each box of their closest neighbors.
Bright as daylight lit, filled with spectators, they provide an enchanting
sight.

The label wants all women to visit the theater in full plaster when
the front seats in the boxes entitled to make, especially in those
of the first and second rank.

No woman is allowed into a deep hat with a small, flower or an affected Putzhut is allowed with
feathers. On the ground floor, however you appear in everyday clothes, with big hats, the
contradiction must be removed without, however, if it is required. Women and men of all ranks
of the middle class will visit the ground floor. It is a very decent place, but you have to
early, before the opening of the house often come to office to find a good, for no Vorherbestellen
takes place there.

In the first two rows of boxes Dame is the beginning not allowed into the previously named Paper
has to be written into the boxes and order by their place. This is done to the city nymphs of these
boxes to remove the public, which first and irreproachable families of the kingdom are intended for.
Those ladies have their own seats in the background of the theater need. With the registered
name of the one have the right number of places in which you want to set benches until the first
act for themselves to leave the store to an end.

You can send their own servants, or, what is more common to pay a shilling. For this price someone is placed
by the lodge keeper. By the end of the first act these empty seats are released, then everyone
has the right, took possession of her to. No one may pay for more places than he needs, and would do it,
we rented a whole box, it would not help. The Englishman said: no one should be money to another,
which also paid for by the enjoyment of a public pleasure to exclude
by if it allows the space. Therefore found in the English theater instead
of a subscription, too.

Even the royal family must lodge their first order, which differs from any of the other way, and without
any discrimination as the other is occupied when there is no one
from the royal house.

After the third act, everyone is let in for half price, this use is very inconvenient for the better
part of society. With great sound then rave that night birds, like the one from this circle held
Sun came and and all the arrangements were just, they first rows
of seats in the boxes to market the by.

The worst of company, of course, dressed properly distributed, then through the whole house, so women
are never male escort to no theater, and no man shall enter into force one to him sitting behind him unknown
woman's place down, for fear that it seated in addition to neighborhood to bring a mismatching.
This is one of the cases in which a stranger who does not know this custom, courtesy of great might
be impolite. Drury Lane [Footnote: The house, Johanna attended came from the years 1794 and 1809 burned
down again. The creation Drury Lane Theatre of goes back to Thomas Killigrew, the royal patent
in 1662 had built a theater here, which also restored several times and was rebuilt, however.
Patent said that only Drury Lane and Covent Garden had the right, perform plays pure, so for centuries
the position of these two stages. Since 1802 was the departure of the Kemble brothers, Robert and Sarah
Kemble Siddons, Drury Lane, the guided tour to Covent Garden lost, and his particularly ruthless
director Sheridan's financing the house financially from it. 1812 was a new house, opened the little
modified form is still in.] This theater is inside one of the largest and most beautiful in the
world, the outside of that we did not complete.

In a ponderous style, built, like almost all public buildings in London, it seems size of an unusually
high roof, despite its being almost crushed. This roof, however, is for the whole of inestimable
value, not only because of the airframe and other machines that are attached to, but because it iron curtain
contains one, in the event that the idea of fire in the theater get along while, let down is immediately
and part of the house, which the audience meet the, all guarantees
against risk.

From inside the house is painted bright, tastefully decorated and contains four rows of boxes,
without the galleries. At least fifty brilliant crystal chandeliers, and much more elegant round
mirror sconces are mounted in order, hundreds of wax candles burn more than that, and yet their
light fades against the theater and the curtain rises. through a myriad of lights shining like
the brightest sunshine of Lit. The decorations are worthy of the whole, the rear curtain of it is
actually not a curtain, it is not rolled up, but split into several parts, each is the object
after which he imagines and these parts are again separated into
smaller, slide into one another and be drawn into the level.

They also get down and evolve with Zauberschnelle, no column indicates its composition. This
arrangement has the advantage that the decorations are not damaged by the rolling that it folds
and stripes do not show any movement and never come in as our curtains are often the most peaceful
scenes of an earthquake in mind. The brightest stars of the theatrical sky had, as we were in London, Covent
Garden brings in, but remained Drury Lane, especially in the comic
compartment, yet rich enough to enjoy excellent performances by a lot.

In particular, shone Mme Jordan [Footnote: William, Duke of Clarence, King William IV of 1830-37,
had Dorothy Jordan in 1785 at Drury Lane for the first time seen on the stage and the young woman
in love. They lived together 20 years, had 10 children, 5 others who were made up of a relationship
before William, they had placed in the neighborhood. Between their births, she performed on. A year
went to Joan's residence to break it then, as William himself with marriage intentions was, Dorothy
went abroad and died in France distress] out in bitter, the mistress, or, as some claimed, the secretly
wedded wife of the then Duke of Clarence, the present king, who before the world, they also honored
in every way and always with his livery carriage ride to the theater in his did. At the sight of
this wonderfully charming woman had to be completely forgotten that
they pretty well over the first bloom of youth and also for juvenile
roles was to become something much already.

The cheerful mischievous expression on her very pretty face, a pleasant,
sonorous organ, the naive grace and truth in each of her movements
charmed irresistible and could not miss. We want to remember a performance
at Drury Lane, which we all liked before.

They played Shakespeare's "Much Ado about Nothing" (Much Ado About Nothing). In Germany, we occasionally
see a crippling of this wonderful comedy under the name "the tormentors" [footnote: from the
Mannheim actor Beck. Johanna attended this performance on their first stay in London, on 30 May,
a few days after their arrival in England.] And it has even then, much effort the author has given
it to draw down to mediocrity, so awkward in the tight uniform of
a Shakespeare or modern lieutenant governor moves into.

What a but it is quite another benefit, this piece with a few omissions, the manners absolutely
necessary to make our own, original luster to see in his! Mrs. Jordan and Mr. Bannister as
Beatrice [Footnote: John, "the best low comedian on stage," Leigh Hunt called him in his "Critical
Essays", 1807.] Benedickt as were all in their places.

The scenes between the two, where a joke the other like a word hunt the other one must have seen two
of, to believe that something of this truth can be reproduced with learned by heart. The slow
rejection of the pathetic words, which we mentioned above, was here as in all good British comedians
entirely disappeared, everything went blow for blow, but got no audience in the vast home only
one syllable. True, and the verses and re-enter them the seriousness with appear again the solemn
preacher. About all of the judges were amusing Dogberry and his comrades with a broad peasant dialects.
The whole house shook from the great unstoppable laughter of the
audience, and they appeared, they often had to stop, only to be heard.

Mme
Bland, a short, thick, oldish favorite of the audience, an excellent singer was true, because they
cried mightily, clearly expressed sang, in an interlude an English love story, "Poor crazy Jane" (the
poor mad Hanna). It's the simple actions of a betrayed his lover and about crazed girl. The music
was not much, but it had to be repeated twice a loud applause as. In this country, the text is more
than the music, and such descriptions of the highest human misery
are even the greatest joy of the English.

With their feeling they are doing, we with the Cayenne pepper: only the most strong can with them heart and
stomach to irritate. The decision made for this evening, or as we in this country matching
says, for this night, a large, mostly by Italians listed Pantomime , a spectacle that we saw
in this perfection still nowhere.

A wizard sat on his throne, surrounded by ghosts of all kinds serving In the back, behind an iron grating,
one could see the old Pantaloon, Harlequin, Columbine and the faithful servant Pierrot, all deep
in slumber of death, lie in coffins.
 When Heraclian landed in the harbor of Carthage, he
found that the whole province, disdaining such an unworthy ruler, had returned to their allegiance.
The rebel was beheaded in the ancient temple of Memory his consulship was abolished: and the
remains of his private fortune, not exceeding the moderate sum of four thousand pounds of gold,
were granted to the brave Constantius, who had already defended the throne, which he afterwards
shared with his feeble sovereign. Honorius viewed, with supine indifference, the calamities
of Rome and Italy; but the rebellious attempts of Attalus and Heraclian, against his personal
safety, awakened, for a moment, the torpid instinct of his nature. He was probably ignorant
of the causes and events which preserved him from these impending dangers; and as Italy was
no longer invaded by any foreign or domestic enemies, he peaceably existed in the palace of
Ravenna, while the tyrants beyond the Alps were repeatedly vanquished in the name, and by the
lieutenants, of the son of Theodosius. In the course of a busy and interesting narrative I
might possibly forget to mention the death of such a prince: and I shall therefore take the
precaution of observing, in this place, that he survived the last siege of Rome about thirteen
years.

The usurpation of Constantine, who received the purple from the legions of Britain, had been
successful, and seemed to be secure. His title was acknowledged, from the wall of Antoninus
to the columns of Hercules; and, in the midst of the public disorder he shared the dominion,
and the plunder, of Gaul and Spain, with the tribes of Barbarians, whose destructive progress
was no longer checked by the Rhine or Pyrenees. Stained with the blood of the kinsmen of Honorius,
he extorted, from the court of Ravenna, with which he secretly corresponded, the ratification
of his rebellious claims Constantine engaged himself, by a solemn promise, to deliver Italy
from the Goths; advanced as far as the banks of the Po; and after alarming, rather than assisting,
his pusillanimous ally, hastily returned to the palace of Arles, to celebrate, with intemperate
luxury, his vain and ostentatious triumph. But this transient prosperity was soon interrupted
and destroyed by the revolt of Count Gerontius, the bravest of his generals; who, during the
absence of his son Constants, a prince already invested with the Imperial purple, had been
left to command in the provinces of Spain. From some reason, of which we are ignorant, Gerontius,
instead of assuming the diadem, placed it on the head of his friend Maximus, who fixed his
residence at Tarragona, while the active count pressed forwards, through the Pyrenees, to surprise
the two emperors, Constantine and Constans, before they could prepare for their defence. The
son was made prisoner at Vienna, and immediately put to death: and the unfortunate youth had
scarcely leisure to deplore the elevation of his family; which had tempted, or compelled him,
sacrilegiously to desert the peaceful obscurity of the monastic life. The father maintained
a siege within the walls of Arles; but those walls must have yielded to the assailants, had
not the city been unexpectedly relieved by the approach of an Italian army. The name of Honorius,
the proclamation of a lawful emperor, astonished the contending parties of the rebels. Gerontius,
abandoned by his own troops, escaped to the confines of Spain; and rescued his name from oblivion,
by the Roman courage which appeared to animate the last moments of his life. In the middle
of the night, a great body of his perfidious soldiers surrounded and attacked his house, which
he had strongly barricaded. His wife, a valiant friend of the nation of the Alani, and some
faithful slaves, were still attached to his person; and he used, with so much skill and resolution,
a large magazine of darts and arrows, that above three hundred of the assailants lost their
lives in the attempt. His slaves when all the missile weapons were spent, fled at the dawn
of day; and Gerontius, if he had not been restrained by conjugal tenderness, might have imitated
their example; till the soldiers, provoked by such obstinate resistance, applied fire on all
sides to the house. In this fatal extremity, he complied with the request of his Barbarian
friend, and cut off his head. The wife of Gerontius, who conjured him not to abandon her to
a life of misery and disgrace, eagerly presented her neck to his sword; and the tragic scene
was terminated by the death of the count himself, who, after three ineffectual strokes, drew
a short dagger, and sheathed it in his heart. The unprotected Maximus, whom he had invested
with the purple, was indebted for his life to the contempt that was entertained of his power
and abilities. The caprice of the Barbarians, who ravaged Spain, once more seated this Imperial
phantom on the throne: but they soon resigned him to the justice of Honorius; and the tyrant
Maximus, after he had been shown to the people of Ravenna and Rome, was publicly executed.

The general, (Constantius was his name,) who raised by his approach the siege of Arles, and
dissipated the troops of Gerontius, was born a Roman; and this remarkable distinction is strongly
expressive of the decay of military spirit among the subjects of the empire. The strength and
majesty which were conspicuous in the person of that general, marked him, in the popular opinion,
as a candidate worthy of the throne, which he afterwards ascended. In the familiar intercourse
of private life, his manners were cheerful and engaging; nor would he sometimes disdain, in
the license of convivial mirth, to vie with the pantomimes themselves, in the exercises of
their ridiculous profession. But when the trumpet summoned him to arms; when he mounted his
horse, and, bending down (for such was his singular practice) almost upon the neck, fiercely
rolled his large animated eyes round the field, Constantius then struck terror into his foes,
and inspired his soldiers with the assurance of victory. He had received from the court of
Ravenna the important commission of extirpating rebellion in the provinces of the West; and
the pretended emperor Constantine, after enjoying a short and anxious respite, was again besieged
in his capital by the arms of a more formidable enemy. Yet this interval allowed time for a
successful negotiation with the Franks and Alemanni and his ambassador, Edobic, soon returned
at the head of an army, to disturb the operations of the siege of Arles. The Roman general,
instead of expecting the attack in his lines, boldly and perhaps wisely, resolved to pass the
Rhone, and to meet the Barbarians. His measures were conducted with so much skill and secrecy,
that, while they engaged the infantry of Constantius in the front, they were suddenly attacked,
surrounded, and destroyed, by the cavalry of his lieutenant Ulphilas, who had silently gained
an advantageous post in their rear. The remains of the army of Edobic were preserved by flight
or submission, and their leader escaped from the field of battle to the house of a faithless
friend; who too clearly understood, that the head of his obnoxious guest would be an acceptable
and lucrative present for the Imperial general. On this occasion, Constantius behaved with
the magnanimity of a genuine Roman. Subduing, or suppressing, every sentiment of jealousy,
he publicly acknowledged the merit and services of Ulphilas; but he turned with horror from
the assassin of Edobic; and sternly intimated his commands, that the camp should no longer
be polluted by the presence of an ungrateful wretch, who had violated the laws of friendship
and hospitality. The usurper, who beheld, from the walls of Arles, the ruin of his last hopes,
was tempted to place some confidence in so generous a conqueror. He required a solemn promise
for his security; and after receiving, by the imposition of hands, the sacred character of
a Christian Presbyter, he ventured to open the gates of the city. But he soon experienced that
the principles of honor and integrity, which might regulate the ordinary conduct of Constantius,
were superseded by the loose doctrines of political morality. The Roman general, indeed, refused
to sully his laurels with the blood of Constantine; but the abdicated emperor, and his son
Julian, were sent under a strong guard into Italy; and before they reached the palace of Ravenna,
they met the ministers of death.

At a time when it was universally confessed, that almost every man in the empire was superior
in personal merit to the princes whom the accident of their birth had seated on the throne,
a rapid succession of usurpers, regardless of the fate of their predecessors, still continued
to arise. This mischief was peculiarly felt in the provinces of Spain and Gaul, where the principles
of order and obedience had been extinguished by war and rebellion. Before Constantine resigned
the purple, and in the fourth month of the siege of Arles, intelligence was received in the
Imperial camp, that Jovinus has assumed the diadem at Mentz, in the Upper Germany, at the instigation
of Goar, king of the Alani, and of Guntiarius, king of the Burgundians; and that the candidate,
on whom they had bestowed the empire, advanced with a formidable host of Barbarians, from the
banks of the Rhine to those of the Rhone. Every circumstance is dark and extraordinary in the
short history of the reign of Jovinus. It was natural to expect, that a brave and skilful general,
at the head of a victorious army, would have asserted, in a field of battle, the justice of
the cause of Honorius. The hasty retreat of Constantius might be justified by weighty reasons;
but he resigned, without a struggle, the possession of Gaul; and Dardanus, the Prætorian præfect,
is recorded as the only magistrate who refused to yield obedience to the usurper. When the
Goths, two years after the siege of Rome, established their quarters in Gaul, it was natural
to suppose that their inclinations could be divided only between the emperor Honorius, with
whom they had formed a recent alliance, and the degraded Attalus, whom they reserved in their
camp for the occasional purpose of acting the part of a musician or a monarch. Yet in a moment
of disgust, (for which it is not easy to assign a cause, or a date,) Adolphus connected himself
with the usurper of Gaul; and imposed on Attalus the ignominious task of negotiating the treaty,
which ratified his own disgrace. We are again surprised to read, that, instead of considering
the Gothic alliance as the firmest support of his throne, Jovinus upbraided, in dark and ambiguous
language, the officious importunity of Attalus; that, scorning the advice of his great ally,
he invested with the purple his brother Sebastian; and that he most imprudently accepted the
service of Sarus, when that gallant chief, the soldier of Honorius, was provoked to desert
the court of a prince, who knew not how to reward or punish. Adolphus, educated among a race
of warriors, who esteemed the duty of revenge as the most precious and sacred portion of their
inheritance, advanced with a body of ten thousand Goths to encounter the hereditary enemy of
the house of Balti. He attacked Sarus at an unguarded moment, when he was accompanied only
by eighteen or twenty of his valiant followers. United by friendship, animated by despair,
but at length oppressed by multitudes, this band of heroes deserved the esteem, without exciting
the compassion, of their enemies; and the lion was no sooner taken in the toils, than he was
instantly despatched. The death of Sarus dissolved the loose alliance which Adolphus still
maintained with the usurpers of Gaul. He again listened to the dictates of love and prudence;
and soon satisfied the brother of Placidia, by the assurance that he would immediately transmit
to the palace of Ravenna the heads of the two tyrants, Jovinus and Sebastian. The king of the
Goths executed his promise without difficulty or delay; the helpless brothers, unsupported
by any personal merit, were abandoned by their Barbarian auxiliaries; and the short opposition
of Valentia was expiated by the ruin of one of the noblest cities of Gaul. The emperor, chosen
by the Roman senate, who had been promoted, degraded, insulted, restored, again degraded, and
again insulted, was finally abandoned to his fate; but when the Gothic king withdrew his protection,
he was restrained, by pity or contempt, from offering any violence to the person of Attalus.
The unfortunate Attalus, who was left without subjects or allies, embarked in one of the ports
of Spain, in search of some secure and solitary retreat: but he was intercepted at sea, conducted
to the presence of Honorius, led in triumph through the streets of Rome or Ravenna, and publicly
exposed to the gazing multitude, on the second step of the throne of his invincible conqueror.
The same measure of punishment, with which, in the days of his prosperity, he was accused of
menacing his rival, was inflicted on Attalus himself; he was condemned, after the amputation
of two fingers, to a perpetual exile in the Isle of Lipari, where he was supplied with the
decent necessaries of life. The remainder of the reign of Honorius was undisturbed by rebellion;
and it may be observed, that, in the space of five years, seven usurpers had yielded to the
fortune of a prince, who was himself incapable either of counsel or of action.

The situation of Spain, separated, on all sides, from the enemies of Rome, by the sea, by the
mountains, and by intermediate provinces, had secured the long tranquillity of that remote
and sequestered country; and we may observe, as a sure symptom of domestic happiness, that,
in a period of four hundred years, Spain furnished very few materials to the history of the
Roman empire. The footsteps of the Barbarians, who, in the reign of Gallienus, had penetrated
beyond the Pyrenees, were soon obliterated by the return of peace; and in the fourth century
of the Christian æra, the cities of Emerita, or Merida, of Corduba, Seville, Bracara, and Tarragona,
were numbered with the most illustrious of the Roman world. The various plenty of the animal,
the vegetable, and the mineral kingdoms, was improved and manufactured by the skill of an industrious
people; and the peculiar advantages of naval stores contributed to support an extensive and
profitable trade. The arts and sciences flourished under the protection of the emperors; and
if the character of the Spaniards was enfeebled by peace and servitude, the hostile approach
of the Germans, who had spread terror and desolation from the Rhine to the Pyrenees, seemed
to rekindle some sparks of military ardor. As long as the defence of the mountains was intrusted
to the hardy and faithful militia of the country, they successfully repelled the frequent attempts
of the Barbarians. But no sooner had the national troops been compelled to resign their post
to the Honorian bands, in the service of Constantine, than the gates of Spain were treacherously
betrayed to the public enemy, about ten months before the sack of Rome by the Goths. The consciousness
of guilt, and the thirst of rapine, prompted the mercenary guards of the Pyrenees to desert
their station; to invite the arms of the Suevi, the Vandals, and the Alani; and to swell the
torrent which was poured with irresistible violence from the frontiers of Gaul to the sea of
Africa. The misfortunes of Spain may be described in the language of its most eloquent historian,
who has concisely expressed the passionate, and perhaps exaggerated, declamations of contemporary
writers. "The irruption of these nations was followed by the most dreadful calamities; as the
Barbarians exercised their indiscriminate cruelty on the fortunes of the Romans and the Spaniards,
and ravaged with equal fury the cities and the open country. Pestilence soon appeared, the
inseparable companion of famine; a large proportion of the people was swept away; and the groans
of the dying excited only the envy of their surviving friends. At length the Barbarians, satiated
with carnage and rapine, and afflicted by the contagious evils which they themselves had introduced,
fixed their permanent seats in the depopulated country. The ancient Gallicia, whose limits
included the kingdom of Old Castille, was divided between the Suevi and the Vandals; the Alani
were scattered over the provinces of Carthagena and Lusitania, from the Mediterranean to the
Atlantic Ocean; and the fruitful territory of Btica was allotted to the Silingi, another branch
of the Vandalic nation. After regulating this partition, the conquerors contracted with their
new subjects some reciprocal engagements of protection and obedience: the lands were again
cultivated; and the towns and villages were again occupied by a captive people. The greatest
part of the Spaniards was even disposed to prefer this new condition of poverty and barbarism,
to the severe oppressions of the Roman government; yet there were many who still asserted their
native freedom; and who refused, more especially in the mountains of Gallicia, to submit to
the Barbarian yoke."

The important present of the heads of Jovinus and Sebastian had approved the friendship of
Adolphus, and restored Gaul to the obedience of his brother Honorius. Peace was incompatible
with the situation and temper of the king of the Goths. He readily accepted the proposal of
turning his victorious arms against the Barbarians of Spain; the troops of Constantius intercepted
his communication with the seaports of Gaul, and gently pressed his march towards the Pyrenees:
he passed the mountains, and surprised, in the name of the emperor, the city of Barcelona.
The fondness of Adolphus for his Roman bride, was not abated by time or possession: and the
birth of a son, surnamed, from his illustrious grandsire, Theodosius, appeared to fix him forever
in the interest of the republic. The loss of that infant, whose remains were deposited in a
silver coffin in one of the churches near Barcelona, afflicted his parents; but the grief of
the Gothic king was suspended by the labors of the field; and the course of his victories was
soon interrupted by domestic treason. He had imprudently received into his service one of the
followers of Sarus; a Barbarian of a daring spirit, but of a diminutive stature; whose secret
desire of revenging the death of his beloved patron was continually irritated by the sarcasms
of his insolent master. Adolphus was assassinated in the palace of Barcelona; the laws of the
succession were violated by a tumultuous faction; and a stranger to the royal race, Singeric,
the brother of Sarus himself, was seated on the Gothic throne. The first act of his reign was
the inhuman murder of the six children of Adolphus, the issue of a former marriage, whom he
tore, without pity, from the feeble arms of a venerable bishop. The unfortunate Placidia, instead
of the respectful compassion, which she might have excited in the most savage breasts, was
treated with cruel and wanton insult. The daughter of the emperor Theodosius, confounded among
a crowd of vulgar captives, was compelled to march on foot above twelve miles, before the horse
of a Barbarian, the assassin of a husband whom Placidia loved and lamented.

But Placidia soon obtained the pleasure of revenge, and the view of her ignominious sufferings
might rouse an indignant people against the tyrant, who was assassinated on the seventh day
of his usurpation. After the death of Singeric, the free choice of the nation bestowed the
Gothic sceptre on Wallia; whose warlike and ambitious temper appeared, in the beginning of
his reign, extremely hostile to the republic. He marched in arms from Barcelona to the shores
of the Atlantic Ocean, which the ancients revered and dreaded as the boundary of the world.
But when he reached the southern promontory of Spain, and, from the rock now covered by the
fortress of Gibraltar, contemplated the neighboring and fertile coast of Africa, Wallia resumed
the designs of conquest, which had been interrupted by the death of Alaric. The winds and waves
again disappointed the enterprise of the Goths; and the minds of a superstitious people were
deeply affected by the repeated disasters of storms and shipwrecks. In this disposition the
successor of Adolphus no longer refused to listen to a Roman ambassador, whose proposals were
enforced by the real, or supposed, approach of a numerous army, under the conduct of the brave
Constantius. A solemn treaty was stipulated and observed; Placidia was honorably restored to
her brother; six hundred thousand measures of wheat were delivered to the hungry Goths; and
Wallia engaged to draw his sword in the service of the empire. A bloody war was instantly excited
among the Barbarians of Spain; and the contending princes are said to have addressed their
letters, their ambassadors, and their hostages, to the throne of the Western emperor, exhorting
him to remain a tranquil spectator of their contest; the events of which must be favorable
to the Romans, by the mutual slaughter of their common enemies. The Spanish war was obstinately
supported, during three campaigns, with desperate valor, and various success; and the martial
achievements of Wallia diffused through the empire the superior renown of the Gothic hero.
He exterminated the Silingi, who had irretrievably ruined the elegant plenty of the province
of Btica. He slew, in battle, the king of the Alani; and the remains of those Scythian wanderers,
who escaped from the field, instead of choosing a new leader, humbly sought a refuge under
the standard of the Vandals, with whom they were ever afterwards confounded. The Vandals themselves,
and the Suevi, yielded to the efforts of the invincible Goths. The promiscuous multitude of
Barbarians, whose retreat had been intercepted, were driven into the mountains of Gallicia;
where they still continued, in a narrow compass and on a barren soil, to exercise their domestic
and implacable hostilities. In the pride of victory, Wallia was faithful to his engagements:
he restored his Spanish conquests to the obedience of Honorius; and the tyranny of the Imperial
officers soon reduced an oppressed people to regret the time of their Barbarian servitude.
While the event of the war was still doubtful, the first advantages obtained by the arms of
Wallia had encouraged the court of Ravenna to decree the honors of a triumph to their feeble
sovereign. He entered Rome like the ancient conquerors of nations; and if the monuments of
servile corruption had not long since met with the fate which they deserved, we should probably
find that a crowd of poets and orators, of magistrates and bishops, applauded the fortune,
the wisdom, and the invincible courage, of the emperor Honorius.

Such a triumph might have been justly claimed by the ally of Rome, if Wallia, before he repassed
the Pyrenees, had extirpated the seeds of the Spanish war. His victorious Goths, forty-three
years after they had passed the Danube, were established, according to the faith of treaties,
in the possession of the second Aquitain; a maritime province between the Garonne and the Loire,
under the civil and ecclesiastical jurisdiction of Bourdeaux. That metropolis, advantageously
situated for the trade of the ocean, was built in a regular and elegant form; and its numerous
inhabitants were distinguished among the Gauls by their wealth, their learning, and the politeness
of their manners. The adjacent province, which has been fondly compared to the garden of Eden,
is blessed with a fruitful soil, and a temperate climate; the face of the country displayed
the arts and the rewards of industry; and the Goths, after their martial toils, luxuriously
exhausted the rich vineyards of Aquitain. The Gothic limits were enlarged by the additional
gift of some neighboring dioceses; and the successors of Alaric fixed their royal residence
at Thoulouse, which included five populous quarters, or cities, within the spacious circuit
of its walls. About the same time, in the last years of the reign of Honorius, the Goths, the
Burgundians, and the Franks, obtained a permanent seat and dominion in the provinces of Gaul.
The liberal grant of the usurper Jovinus to his Burgundian allies, was confirmed by the lawful
emperor; the lands of the First, or Upper, Germany, were ceded to those formidable Barbarians;
and they gradually occupied, either by conquest or treaty, the two provinces which still retain,
with the titles of Duchy and County, the national appellation of Burgundy. The Franks, the
valiant and faithful allies of the Roman republic, were soon tempted to imitate the invaders,
whom they had so bravely resisted. Treves, the capital of Gaul, was pillaged by their lawless
bands; and the humble colony, which they so long maintained in the district of Toxandia, in
Brabant, insensibly multiplied along the banks of the Meuse and Scheld, till their independent
power filled the whole extent of the Second, or Lower Germany. These facts may be sufficiently
justified by historic evidence; but the foundation of the French monarchy by Pharamond, the
conquests, the laws, and even the existence, of that hero, have been justly arraigned by the
impartial severity of modern criticism.

The ruin of the opulent provinces of Gaul may be dated from the establishment of these Barbarians,
whose alliance was dangerous and oppressive, and who were capriciously impelled, by interest
or passion, to violate the public peace. A heavy and partial ransom was imposed on the surviving
provincials, who had escaped the calamities of war; the fairest and most fertile lands were
assigned to the rapacious strangers, for the use of their families, their slaves, and their
cattle; and the trembling natives relinquished with a sigh the inheritance of their fathers.
Yet these domestic misfortunes, which are seldom the lot of a vanquished people, had been felt
and inflicted by the Romans themselves, not only in the insolence of foreign conquest, but
in the madness of civil discord. The Triumvirs proscribed eighteen of the most flourishing
colonies of Italy; and distributed their lands and houses to the veterans who revenged the
death of Cæsar, and oppressed the liberty of their country. Two poets of unequal fame have
deplored, in similar circumstances, the loss of their patrimony; but the legionaries of Augustus
appear to have surpassed, in violence and injustice, the Barbarians who invaded Gaul under
the reign of Honorius. It was not without the utmost difficulty that Virgil escaped from the
sword of the Centurion, who had usurped his farm in the neighborhood of Mantua; but Paulinus
of Bourdeaux received a sum of money from his Gothic purchaser, which he accepted with pleasure
and surprise; and though it was much inferior to the real value of his estate, this act of
rapine was disguised by some colors of moderation and equity. The odious name of conquerors
was softened into the mild and friendly appellation of the guests of the Romans; and the Barbarians
of Gaul, more especially the Goths, repeatedly declared, that they were bound to the people
by the ties of hospitality, and to the emperor by the duty of allegiance and military service.
The title of Honorius and his successors, their laws, and their civil magistrates, were still
respected in the provinces of Gaul, of which they had resigned the possession to the Barbarian
allies; and the kings, who exercised a supreme and independent authority over their native
subjects, ambitiously solicited the more honorable rank of master-generals of the Imperial
armies. Such was the involuntary reverence which the Roman name still impressed on the minds
of those warriors, who had borne away in triumph the spoils of the Capitol.

Whilst Italy was ravaged by the Goths, and a succession of feeble tyrants oppressed the provinces
beyond the Alps, the British island separated itself from the body of the Roman empire. The
regular forces, which guarded that remote province, had been gradually withdrawn; and Britain
was abandoned without defence to the Saxon pirates, and the savages of Ireland and Caledonia.
The Britons, reduced to this extremity, no longer relied on the tardy and doubtful aid of a
declining monarchy. They assembled in arms, repelled the invaders, and rejoiced in the important
discovery of their own strength. Afflicted by similar calamities, and actuated by the same
spirit, the Armorican provinces (a name which comprehended the maritime countries of Gaul between
the Seine and the Loire ) resolved to imitate the example of the neighboring island. They expelled
the Roman magistrates, who acted under the authority of the usurper Constantine; and a free
government was established among a people who had so long been subject to the arbitrary will
of a master. The independence of Britain and Armorica was soon confirmed by Honorius himself,
the lawful emperor of the West; and the letters, by which he committed to the new states the
care of their own safety, might be interpreted as an absolute and perpetual abdication of the
exercise and rights of sovereignty. This interpretation was, in some measure, justified by
the event. After the usurpers of Gaul had successively fallen, the maritime provinces were
restored to the empire. Yet their obedience was imperfect and precarious: the vain, inconstant,
rebellious disposition of the people, was incompatible either with freedom or servitude; and
Armorica, though it could not long maintain the form of a republic, was agitated by frequent
and destructive revolts. Britain was irrecoverably lost. But as the emperors wisely acquiesced
in the independence of a remote province, the separation was not imbittered by the reproach
of tyranny or rebellion; and the claims of allegiance and protection were succeeded by the
mutual and voluntary offices of national friendship.

This revolution dissolved the artificial fabric of civil and military government; and the independent
country, during a period of forty years, till the descent of the Saxons, was ruled by the authority
of the clergy, the nobles, and the municipal towns. I. Zosimus, who alone has preserved the
memory of this singular transaction, very accurately observes, that the letters of Honorius
were addressed to the cities of Britain. Under the protection of the Romans, ninety-two considerable
towns had arisen in the several parts of that great province; and, among these, thirty-three
cities were distinguished above the rest by their superior privileges and importance. Each
of these cities, as in all the other provinces of the empire, formed a legal corporation, for
the purpose of regulating their domestic policy; and the powers of municipal government were
distributed among annual magistrates, a select senate, and the assembly of the people, according
to the original model of the Roman constitution. The management of a common revenue, the exercise
of civil and criminal jurisdiction, and the habits of public counsel and command, were inherent
to these petty republics; and when they asserted their independence, the youth of the city,
and of the adjacent districts, would naturally range themselves under the standard of the magistrate.
But the desire of obtaining the advantages, and of escaping the burdens, of political society,
is a perpetual and inexhaustible source of discord; nor can it reasonably be presumed, that
the restoration of British freedom was exempt from tumult and faction. The preeminence of birth
and fortune must have been frequently violated by bold and popular citizens; and the haughty
nobles, who complained that they were become the subjects of their own servants, would sometimes
regret the reign of an arbitrary monarch. II. The jurisdiction of each city over the adjacent
country, was supported by the patrimonial influence of the principal senators; and the smaller
towns, the villages, and the proprietors of land, consulted their own safety by adhering to
the shelter of these rising republics. The sphere of their attraction was proportioned to the
respective degrees of their wealth and populousness; but the hereditary lords of ample possessions,
who were not oppressed by the neighborhood of any powerful city, aspired to the rank of independent
princes, and boldly exercised the rights of peace and war. The gardens and villas, which exhibited
some faint imitation of Italian elegance, would soon be converted into strong castles, the
refuge, in time of danger, of the adjacent country: the produce of the land was applied to
purchase arms and horses; to maintain a military force of slaves, of peasants, and of licentious
followers; and the chieftain might assume, within his own domain, the powers of a civil magistrate.
Several of these British chiefs might be the genuine posterity of ancient kings; and many more
would be tempted to adopt this honorable genealogy, and to vindicate their hereditary claims,
which had been suspended by the usurpation of the Cæsars. Their situation and their hopes would
dispose them to affect the dress, the language, and the customs of their ancestors. If the
princes of Britain relapsed into barbarism, while the cities studiously preserved the laws
and manners of Rome, the whole island must have been gradually divided by the distinction of
two national parties; again broken into a thousand subdivisions of war and faction, by the
various provocations of interest and resentment. The public strength, instead of being united
against a foreign enemy, was consumed in obscure and intestine quarrels; and the personal merit
which had placed a successful leader at the head of his equals, might enable him to subdue
the freedom of some neighboring cities; and to claim a rank among the tyrants, who infested
Britain after the dissolution of the Roman government. III. The British church might be composed
of thirty or forty bishops, with an adequate proportion of the inferior clergy; and the want
of riches (for they seem to have been poor ) would compel them to deserve the public esteem,
by a decent and exemplary behavior. The interest, as well as the temper of the clergy, was
favorable to the peace and union of their distracted country: those salutary lessons might
be frequently inculcated in their popular discourses; and the episcopal synods were the only
councils that could pretend to the weight and authority of a national assembly. In such councils,
where the princes and magistrates sat promiscuously with the bishops, the important affairs
of the state, as well as of the church, might be freely debated; differences reconciled, alliances
formed, contributions imposed, wise resolutions often concerted, and sometimes executed; and
there is reason to believe, that, in moments of extreme danger, a Pendragon, or Dictator, was
elected by the general consent of the Britons. These pastoral cares, so worthy of the episcopal
character, were interrupted, however, by zeal and superstition; and the British clergy incessantly
labored to eradicate the Pelagian heresy, which they abhorred, as the peculiar disgrace of
their native country.

It is somewhat remarkable, or rather it is extremely natural, that the revolt of Britain and
Armorica should have introduced an appearance of liberty into the obedient provinces of Gaul.
In a solemn edict, filled with the strongest assurances of that paternal affection which princes
so often express, and so seldom feel, the emperor Honorius promulgated his intention of convening
an annual assembly of the seven provinces: a name peculiarly appropriated to Aquitain and the
ancient Narbonnese, which had long since exchanged their Celtic rudeness for the useful and
elegant arts of Italy. Arles, the seat of government and commerce, was appointed for the place
of the assembly; which regularly continued twenty-eight days, from the fifteenth of August
to the thirteenth of September, of every year. It consisted of the Prætorian præfect of the
Gauls; of seven provincial governors, one consular, and six presidents; of the magistrates,
and perhaps the bishops, of about sixty cities; and of a competent, though indefinite, number
of the most honorable and opulent possessors of land, who might justly be considered as the
representatives of their country. They were empowered to interpret and communicate the laws
of their sovereign; to expose the grievances and wishes of their constituents; to moderate
the excessive or unequal weight of taxes; and to deliberate on every subject of local or national
importance, that could tend to the restoration of the peace and prosperity of the seven provinces.
If such an institution, which gave the people an interest in their own government, had been
universally established by Trajan or the Antonines, the seeds of public wisdom and virtue might
have been cherished and propagated in the empire of Rome. The privileges of the subject would
have secured the throne of the monarch; the abuses of an arbitrary administration might have
been prevented, in some degree, or corrected, by the interposition of these representative
assemblies; and the country would have been defended against a foreign enemy by the arms of
natives and freemen. Under the mild and generous influence of liberty, the Roman empire might
have remained invincible and immortal; or if its excessive magnitude, and the instability of
human affairs, had opposed such perpetual continuance, its vital and constituent members might
have separately preserved their vigor and independence. But in the decline of the empire, when
every principle of health and life had been exhausted, the tardy application of this partial
remedy was incapable of producing any important or salutary effects. The emperor Honorius expresses
his surprise, that he must compel the reluctant provinces to accept a privilege which they
should ardently have solicited. A fine of three, or even five, pounds of gold, was imposed
on the absent representatives; who seem to have declined this imaginary gift of a free constitution,
as the last and most cruel insult of their oppressors.

Chapter XXXII: Emperors Arcadius, Eutropius, Theodosius II.--Part I.

     Arcadius Emperor Of The East.--Administration And Disgrace
     Of Eutropius.--Revolt Of Gainas.--Persecution Of St. John
     Chrysostom.--Theodosius II. Emperor Of The East.--His Sister
     Pulcheria.--His Wife Eudocia.--The Persian War, And Division
     Of Armenia.

The division of the Roman world between the sons of Theodosius marks the final establishment
of the empire of the East, which, from the reign of Arcadius to the taking of Constantinople
by the Turks, subsisted one thousand and fifty-eight years, in a state of premature and perpetual
decay. The sovereign of that empire assumed, and obstinately retained, the vain, and at length
fictitious, title of Emperor of the Romans; and the hereditary appellation of Cæsar and Augustus
continued to declare, that he was the legitimate successor of the first of men, who had reigned
over the first of nations. The place of Constantinople rivalled, and perhaps excelled, the
magnificence of Persia; and the eloquent sermons of St. Chrysostom celebrate, while they condemn,
the pompous luxury of the reign of Arcadius. "The emperor," says he, "wears on his head either
a diadem, or a crown of gold, decorated with precious stones of inestimable value. These ornaments,
and his purple garments, are reserved for his sacred person alone; and his robes of silk are
embroidered with the figures of golden dragons. His throne is of massy gold. Whenever he appears
in public, he is surrounded by his courtiers, his guards, and his attendants. Their spears,
their shields, their cuirasses, the bridles and trappings of their horses, have either the
substance or the appearance of gold; and the large splendid boss in the midst of their shield
is encircled with smaller bosses, which represent the shape of the human eye. The two mules
that drew the chariot of the monarch are perfectly white, and shining all over with gold. The
chariot itself, of pure and solid gold, attracts the admiration of the spectators, who contemplate
the purple curtains, the snowy carpet, the size of the precious stones, and the resplendent
plates of gold, that glitter as they are agitated by the motion of the carriage. The Imperial
pictures are white, on a blue ground; the emperor appears seated on his throne, with his arms,
his horses, and his guards beside him; and his vanquished enemies in chains at his feet." On the other
hand, there is melancholy, which apparently cause an etiological role does. It's the after the
loss of a beloved object, whether by the death of the same or as a result of circumstances which
have compelled the libido from the object to the withdrawal. Such psychogenic melancholia mania
may as well go in and the cycle repeated several times as an apparently spontaneous. The conditions
are pretty obscure, especially since only a few cases of melancholia and the psychoanalytic investigation
has been carried so far there are forms [35]. We understand until now, only those cases in which
the object was abandoned because it had proved unworthy of love. It is then through the identification
in the ego again raised and addressed by the ego ideal strict. The accusations and aggression against the object
as a melancholic self-reproach come to light. [35] See Abraham, psychoanalytic approaches to research and treatment
of manic-depressive insanity, etc., 1912, in "Clinical Contributions
to Psychoanalysis", 1921.

More precisely: they hide behind the allegations against the self, give them the strength, toughness
and imperative, by which the self-reproaches of the melancholic are
distinguished.

Even at such a melancholy cover of mania can join in, so that the opportunity to one of the other
characters of the disease independent train is. I see, however, no difficulty, the element of periodic
rebellion of the ego against the ego-ideal for both types of melancholia,
the psychogenic as the spontaneous, to be eligible.

If the spontaneous one can assume that the ego ideal for the development of a specific severity tends
to automatically its temporary suspension has resulted in it. the
psychogenic would at the I rebellion incited to the abuse on the part
of his ideal, which is the case of identification with a dropped object
undergoes in.

XII. Supplements. In the course of the investigation that led to the provisional conclusion reached is
one now, have we various side roads, opened the first we have avoided where we waved but some close
understanding. Some of the so deferred to make up for now we do. A. The distinction between Ichidentifizierung
and Ichidealersetzung the object found by an interesting explanation of the two great artificial
groups, we have studied the outset, the army and the Christian Church. It is evident that the soldier
to his superiors, that is really the army leaders, the ideal increasing,
while he and his peers are identified and this Ichgemeinsamkeit the
obligations of the fellowship for mutual aid and goods derived from
dividing.

But it is ridiculous if he wants to identify with the commander himself.

The hunter in Wallenstein's camp mocked thereat Sergeant: As he clears
his throat and he spits, the you have copied him happy!

... Unlike in the Catholic Church. Every Christian loves Christ as his ideal, and Christians
feel themselves connected by other identification. But the Church requires of him more. It should
also be identified with Christ and other Christian love, as Christ
loved them.

The Church therefore calls on both bodies to supplement the education given by the mass libido position. The
identification is to get there, where the object-choice has taken place and the love object,
where the identification is.

This is more clearly the constitution of the mass beyond. It can be a good Christian and yet one
could the idea is to share Christ's body, it's how he love to embrace all people, are remote. One need not
be a weak man, the magnanimity and strength of the Savior's love be trusted. But this further development
of the libido in the mass distribution is probably the moment to which Christianity bases the
claim, to have won a higher morality.

B. We said it would be possible to place in the spiritual development
of mankind indicate that to which were also the individuals of the
progress of the masses of individual psychology took place.

The here following is under the influence of an exchange of views with Otto Rank. For this we
must briefly on the scientific myth of the primal horde father back again. He was later elevated
to the creator of the world, rightly, for he had created all the sons, who composed the first mass.
He was the ideal of each of them simultaneously feared and revered, which later was found for the notion
of taboo. This majority pulled himself together again, killed and dismembered him. None of the mass
winner could sit at his place, or if one did, the renewed fighting, until they realized that they all had to do
without the father's inheritance on. They then formed the totemic brotherhood, all having the same
rights and bound by the Totemverbote, the murder should receive and
redeem the memory of that.

But the dissatisfaction with the achievements remained and became the source of new developments.
Gradually approached the the brother mass confederates a production of the old state to a new level,
the man was again head of a family and broke the prerogatives of rule by women that are in
the fatherless time had set.

To compensate, he likes the recognition have mother deities at that time, whose priests were castrated
to ensure the mother in the example that the father of the primal horde was given, yet the new
family but a shadow of the old, the fathers were many and all of
the rights the other is limited.

At that time, may want an individual yearning to have moved to detach
from the crowd and role of the father to put in the.

Whoever did this was the first epic poet, the progress has taken place in his imagination. This poet
lied to the reality in terms of his desire. He invented the heroic myth. Hero was, who had
slain the father alone, the myth still as totemic monster appeared in the. As the ideal father of the boy had
been the first, so now the poet created the hero who wants to replace the father, the first ego ideal.
A connection with the hero bot probably the youngest son, the darling of the mother, the father's
jealousy they had protected the front, and in Urhordenzeiten become the successor of the father
was. In the lying paraphrase of ancient times was the woman, and the lure of the murder had
been prize of the high, probably for the seductress and instigator of the crime. The hero wants
the deed done alone have, certainly only horde as a whole married had their. But a remark by Rank has the story
clear traces of the denied facts preserved after. Because there is often the case that the hero, has
a difficult task to solve the - usually a younger son, often one who is the surrogate father stupid to say
before, made safe - has this task only the help of a host of small animals (bees, ants) can be solved with
that. These would be the brothers of the primal horde, just as in dream symbolism insects, vermin
and sisters (contemptuously, as small children) mean. Each of the tasks in myth and fairy tale
is easy replacement of the heroic deed to recognize as also.

The myth then is the pace at which the individual comes out of the mass psychology. The first myth
was certainly the psychological, the Heroenmythus; the explanatory nature myth has arisen to
be much later. The poet, who did so and step into the imagination of the mass had resolved
them know after further observation of Rank but in reality the return to find her. For he goes
and tells the deeds of this mass of his hero, which he invented. This hero is really none other
than himself, he sinks down to reality and thus raises his listeners up to the imagination. The listeners,
however, understand the poet, they can based on the same nostalgic relationship with the ancestor
of the hero to identify [36]. [36] See Hanns Sachs, Joint daydreams, auto unit of a lecture at the
VI. Psychoanalytic Congress at The Hague, 1920. International Journal of Psychoanalysis, VI, 1920.
The lie of the heroic myth culminates in the deification of the hero. Perhaps the deified hero
before God the Father, the forerunner of the return of the primal
father as a deity.

The gods series would run then chronologically like this: Mother Goddess - Heros - Father God. But
only with the increase of the never-forgotten forefather was the deity of the trains, we are
now in her yet know. This summary presentation is in on all the material of legend, myth , fairy
tales, customs, history, etc. Support the design does not have to. C. We in this paper, much direct
and inhibited sexual instincts spoken of, and may hope that this distinction will encounter
resistance at large does not. But an in-depth discussion about it not be unwelcome even if they only repeat
what has already been said in previous posts is part of the great. The first, best example but also
inhibited sexual libido drives us know the development of the child
taught.

All the feelings which the child's parents and caregivers to share experiences, to continue without
limit in the wishes, the sexual desire of the child which give expression. The child requires
these loved ones all the affection, which it has knowledge, wants to kiss her, touch, inspect,
is curious to see their genitals and their intimate Exkretionsverrichtungen to be present at, it promises
to marry the mother or nurse what always, including imagine like sets, the right to father a child
to give birth, etc. Direct observation of and subsequent analytical screening of childhood
remnants can be on the immediate confluence of tender and a jealous feeling and sexual intentions
no doubt, and explain to us, in as thorough way the child is a beloved
object of all his efforts have not properly centered sex makes.

(See
theory of sexuality.) Love This first design of the Child, which is typically associated with the
Oedipus complex succumbs, then, as we know, from the beginning of
the latency time at a thrust displacement.

What it is not necessary to show themselves to us as purely emotional bond tender, the person is
the same, but not "known to be sexually" as. Psychoanalysis, which illuminates the depths of
the soul, has not it difficult to boast that even the sexual bonds
of the first years of childhood still exist, but repressed and unconscious.

It gives us the courage to say that wherever we meet with a tender feeling, this is the successor of
a fully "sensual" object attachment to the person concerned, or their
model (their Imago).

You can of course do not tell without special investigation, whether prior sexual Vollströmung in a
given case is still as driven or whether it is already consumed.

To make it even more sharply to grasp: it is clear that they form and the possibility still exists
as a regression, and at any time occupied by activated, can, the only question is and is not always
decide who they cast and effectiveness still has currently . We must heed this error even make
two, before the Scylla of the underestimation of the repressed unconscious,
still the Charybdis of passion, quite the normal level of pathology
to measure with.

The psychology which repressed will not penetrate the depth of the or can, emotional ties are
the tender in any case an expression of tendencies are as that after the sexual aim not, although
she, then sought emerged, have are those from. The hostile feelings in order to play more complicated
set up a make, Of this no exception. We are entitled to say, they have been diverted from these sexual
goals, although it has its problems, representation of such a deflection goal to meet the requirements of
metapsychology in. By the way, keep it inhibited shoots some of the original sexual aims fixed
forever; also tenderly affectionate, even the friend, the lover seeks the physical proximity
and the sight of the only in "Pauline," meaning beloved. If we want it, we can start one of these
target deflection of sublimation of the sexual instincts in recognizing or limit for the latter have
also put the. The inhibited sexual instincts are against the unbridled one big functional advantage.
it a really complete satisfaction are not capable are they particularly
to create a permanent, committed during the jump each time through
sexual satisfaction of their energy will be forfeited and the renewal
by Wiederanhäufung sexual libido must wait, since, being now the object
to be changed can.

The shoots are inhibited each level of confusion with the uninhibited ability, can they be rückverwandeln
in how they are derived from them. It is well known how easily emotional relationships friendly
way to recognition and admiration from established, wishes to develop erotic (the Molière'sche: Embrassez
pour l'amour-moi du Grec), between master and pupil, artist and enraptured listener, especially
in women. Yes, the first emergence of such unintentional emotional ties are a much more direct way committed
to sexual object choice. In the "piety of the Count of Zinzendorf," Pfister has an exaggerated one,
certainly not an isolated example shown of how close it is, that even intense religious commitment fervent
sexual arousal in retaliating. On the other hand is the direct conversion to short-lived, sexual impulses
into permanent, loving bond just something very ordinary and the consolidation of a passionate love-based
marriage concluded in a large part in this process. We will of course not surprising to hear
that the inhibited sexual strivings directly from the sexual arise if the attainment of sexual aims
of the internal or external obstacles oppose. The repression of the latency time is one such
inner - or rather has become internally - obstacle. From the father of the primal horde, we have
assumed that all the children of his intolerance for sexual abstinence
and she obliges by pushing so in aim-ties, while he himself retains
free sexual pleasure and thus remains unbound.

All bonds, on which depends the mass are of the nature of the inhibited instincts. Consequently,
we have approached the discussion of a new theme, which is the direct relationship to the sexual
instincts mass education deals.

D.
We are already through the two last remarks prepared to find that
the direct sexual strivings of mass education are unfavorable.

It is indeed in the history of the family mass relations of sexual love also given (group marriage),
but the more significant the sexual love for the "I became, the more love she developed, the more
insistently calling for the restriction to two people - una cum uno - - the nature of the genital
goal is marked out by. The polygamous tendencies were dependent of the sequence object in the Exchange
to satisfy himself. Both for the purpose of sexual gratification interdependent people demonstrate
against the herd instinct, the feeling of mass, by the loneliness visit. The more in love them,
the more perfect are satisfying each other. The rejection of the influence of the mass is expressed
as a sense of shame. The extremely violent emotions of jealousy are mobilized to vote against the
object affected by a mass commitment to protect the sexual. Only when the tender, that is personal,
love relationship factor behind the sensual withdraws completely, the pair is an amorous or simultaneous
presence of other sexual acts within a group as possible in the orgy. But this is a regression
to an early state of gender relations given in which the love nor the role played not the sex objects
equivalent were considered together, in the sense of the evil word of Bernard Shaw's: in love
hot, the difference between a woman and another unduly exaggerated. There are plenty of signs there
that love only late in the sexual relations between husband and wife taken up, so that even the
opposition between sexual love, and a late binding mass is developed. Now it may have the impression as
if this assumption with our myth of the primordial family would be incompatible. The band of brothers
but the new love for the mothers and sisters to have been driven by parricide, and it is hard
to love this as anything but an unbroken, primitive, ie intimate association of tender and
sensual as a present. But upon further consideration, resolves this objection in a confirmation.
One reaction to the Father but murder was the establishment of totemic exogamy, the prohibition of
any sexual relationship with since childhood tenderly beloved women of the family. This man was the wedge
between the tender and sensual movements of the driven, which is
still stuck in his love life [37].

As a result of this had to exogamy the sensual needs of men with strange and unloved women are content.
[37] S. About the lowering of the general love of life, 1912, collection of small writings on
neuroses, item 4. In the great artificial groups, church and army is for the woman as sexual
object is not the place. The love affair between a man and woman remains outside of these organizations.
Even where masses are formed, the mixed and women are from men, the gender difference plays no role.
It makes sense to ask no one, whether the libido, which masses together, the homosexual or heterosexual
in nature, for it is not gender differentiated by and sees particular objectives of the genital organization
of libido entirely on the. The direct sexual strivings preserved for the other individuals in the crowd
rising a piece of individual activity.

Where they are overly strong, they decompose each mass education. The Catholic Church had
the best motives, celibacy to recommend to their faithful and priests, celibacy impose their own, but the love
has often clergymen to leave the church also driven. In the same way love breaks through the to wife
the mass bonds of race, national isolation and the social class structure and accomplishes so culturally
important benefits. It seems certain that the homosexual love with the mass bonds far better
tolerate, even when they uninhibited sexual strivings appears as , a remarkable fact, far should lead
their education.

The psychoanalytic study of the psychoneuroses has taught us that their symptoms, but remained
active derive direct sexual strivings are repressed by. One can formula supplement this, if you
add: or of such inhibited, in which the inhibition is not consistently successful, or the repressed
sexual aim the place vacated has returned one.

This ratio is that neurosis makes anti-social, whom ye interested parties of the habitual singles
out mass formations. One can say that the neurosis has a similarly destructive to the extent as
the infatuation. For this one can see that where there is a strong impetus for mass education is, neuroses
resign and for a time at least, can disappear. It has been justly tried also this conflict of neurosis
and mass education to exploit therapeutically. Even those who decline of religious illusions in
today's civilized world will not regret, to admit that she bound them with the strongest protection
against the risk of the neurosis offered as long as they themselves were still in force. It is not difficult,
the ties to religious or mystical-philosophical and mystical sects
and communities, the expression of diverse Schiefheilungen neuroses
can be seen in all.

This all depends on the contrast between the direct and inhibited sexual strivings with. Even Left to
neurotic is obliged to the great mass formations, of which he is excluded, symptom formation
to replace his. He is creating his own fantasy world, his religion, his delusional system and repeated
the institutions of humanity in a distortion of what the overwhelming contribution of the direct sexual
strivings clearly attested [38]. [38] S. Totem and Taboo, the end of part II of: The taboo and the
ambivalence. E. Let us add in conclusion, a comparative assessment of the conditions that have
looked at from the standpoint of the libido theory, of being in love, hypnosis, mass education and neurosis.
The love is based on the simultaneous presence of direct and inhibited sexual strivings, with the
object part the narcissistic ego-libido incurs. It has only room for the ego and the object.
Hypnosis tells of being in love, the restriction to these two people, but it is based entirely on inhibited
sexual strivings and sets the object in the place of the ego ideal. The mass reproduced this process,
it is consistent with of hypnosis in the nature of them together
drives and in the substitution of the ego ideal by the object match,
but it adds identification with other individuals added to the original
by the same relationship to the building permits, the probably.

Both states, hypnosis, such as mass education are Erbniederschläge from the phylogeny of the human
libido, hypnosis as a disposition, moreover, as a direct remnant
of the mass. The replacement of direct sexual strivings which inhibited
promoted by both the separation of ego and ego ideal, to which the
love a start has been made already is.

Neurosis occurs in this series out. Also it is based on a peculiarity of the human libido development,
through to the latency interrupted, two-pronged approach of direct sexual function. (P. sexual
theory, 4th edition, 1920, p. 96) In so far she shares with hypnosis and mass education in the nature
of regression, which is lacking in the love. It occurs in every place where progress has to be inhibited
sexual instincts are not fully succeeded by direct, and corresponds to a conflict between the incorporated
into the ego instincts, which have undergone such a development,
and the shares of the same impulses which the repressed unconscious
ago - as well as other completely repressed impulses to seek their
immediate gratification -.

 The Goths,
according to the terms of the agreement, were immediately transported from Asia into Europe;
and their victorious chief, who accepted the title of master-general of the Roman armies, soon
filled Constantinople with his troops, and distributed among his dependants the honors and
rewards of the empire. In his early youth, Gainas had passed the Danube as a suppliant and
a fugitive: his elevation had been the work of valor and fortune; and his indiscreet or perfidious
conduct was the cause of his rapid downfall. Notwithstanding the vigorous opposition of the
archbishop, he importunately claimed for his Arian sectaries the possession of a peculiar church;
and the pride of the Catholics was offended by the public toleration of heresy. Every quarter
of Constantinople was filled with tumult and disorder; and the Barbarians gazed with such ardor
on the rich shops of the jewellers, and the tables of the bankers, which were covered with
gold and silver, that it was judged prudent to remove those dangerous temptations from their
sight. They resented the injurious precaution; and some alarming attempts were made, during
the night, to attack and destroy with fire the Imperial palace. In this state of mutual and
suspicious hostility, the guards and the people of Constantinople shut the gates, and rose
in arms to prevent or to punish the conspiracy of the Goths. During the absence of Gainas,
his troops were surprised and oppressed; seven thousand Barbarians perished in this bloody
massacre. In the fury of the pursuit, the Catholics uncovered the roof, and continued to throw
down flaming logs of wood, till they overwhelmed their adversaries, who had retreated to the
church or conventicle of the Arians. Gainas was either innocent of the design, or too confident
of his success; he was astonished by the intelligence that the flower of his army had been
ingloriously destroyed; that he himself was declared a public enemy; and that his countryman,
Fravitta, a brave and loyal confederate, had assumed the management of the war by sea and land.
The enterprises of the rebel, against the cities of Thrace, were encountered by a firm and
well-ordered defence; his hungry soldiers were soon reduced to the grass that grew on the margin
of the fortifications; and Gainas, who vainly regretted the wealth and luxury of Asia, embraced
a desperate resolution of forcing the passage of the Hellespont. He was destitute of vessels;
but the woods of the Chersonesus afforded materials for rafts, and his intrepid Barbarians
did not refuse to trust themselves to the waves. But Fravitta attentively watched the progress
of their undertaking As soon as they had gained the middle of the stream, the Roman galleys,
impelled by the full force of oars, of the current, and of a favorable wind, rushed forwards
in compact order, and with irresistible weight; and the Hellespont was covered with the fragments
of the Gothic shipwreck. After the destruction of his hopes, and the loss of many thousands
of his bravest soldiers, Gainas, who could no longer aspire to govern or to subdue the Romans,
determined to resume the independence of a savage life. A light and active body of Barbarian
horse, disengaged from their infantry and baggage, might perform in eight or ten days a march
of three hundred miles from the Hellespont to the Danube; the garrisons of that important frontier
had been gradually annihilated; the river, in the month of December, would be deeply frozen;
and the unbounded prospect of Scythia was opened to the ambition of Gainas. This design was
secretly communicated to the national troops, who devoted themselves to the fortunes of their
leader; and before the signal of departure was given, a great number of provincial auxiliaries,
whom he suspected of an attachment to their native country, were perfidiously massacred. The
Goths advanced, by rapid marches, through the plains of Thrace; and they were soon delivered
from the fear of a pursuit, by the vanity of Fravitta, who, instead of extinguishing the war,
hastened to enjoy the popular applause, and to assume the peaceful honors of the consulship.
But a formidable ally appeared in arms to vindicate the majesty of the empire, and to guard
the peace and liberty of Scythia. The superior forces of Uldin, king of the Huns, opposed the
progress of Gainas; a hostile and ruined country prohibited his retreat; he disdained to capitulate;
and after repeatedly attempting to cut his way through the ranks of the enemy, he was slain,
with his desperate followers, in the field of battle. Eleven days after the naval victory of
the Hellespont, the head of Gainas, the inestimable gift of the conqueror, was received at
Constantinople with the most liberal expressions of gratitude; and the public deliverance was
celebrated by festivals and illuminations. The triumphs of Arcadius became the subject of epic
poems; and the monarch, no longer oppressed by any hostile terrors, resigned himself to the
mild and absolute dominion of his wife, the fair and artful Eudoxia, who was sullied her fame
by the persecution of St. John Chrysostom.

After the death of the indolent Nectarius, the successor of Gregory Nazianzen, the church of
Constantinople was distracted by the ambition of rival candidates, who were not ashamed to
solicit, with gold or flattery, the suffrage of the people, or of the favorite. On this occasion
Eutropius seems to have deviated from his ordinary maxims; and his uncorrupted judgment was
determined only by the superior merit of a stranger. In a late journey into the East, he had
admired the sermons of John, a native and presbyter of Antioch, whose name has been distinguished
by the epithet of Chrysostom, or the Golden Mouth. A private order was despatched to the governor
of Syria; and as the people might be unwilling to resign their favorite preacher, he was transported,
with speed and secrecy in a post-chariot, from Antioch to Constantinople. The unanimous and
unsolicited consent of the court, the clergy, and the people, ratified the choice of the minister;
and, both as a saint and as an orator, the new archbishop surpassed the sanguine expectations
of the public. Born of a noble and opulent family, in the capital of Syria, Chrysostom had
been educated, by the care of a tender mother, under the tuition of the most skilful masters.
He studied the art of rhetoric in the school of Libanius; and that celebrated sophist, who
soon discovered the talents of his disciple, ingenuously confessed that John would have deserved
to succeed him, had he not been stolen away by the Christians. His piety soon disposed him
to receive the sacrament of baptism; to renounce the lucrative and honorable profession of
the law; and to bury himself in the adjacent desert, where he subdued the lusts of the flesh
by an austere penance of six years. His infirmities compelled him to return to the society
of mankind; and the authority of Meletius devoted his talents to the service of the church:
but in the midst of his family, and afterwards on the archiepiscopal throne, Chrysostom still
persevered in the practice of the monastic virtues. The ample revenues, which his predecessors
had consumed in pomp and luxury, he diligently applied to the establishment of hospitals; and
the multitudes, who were supported by his charity, preferred the eloquent and edifying discourses
of their archbishop to the amusements of the theatre or the circus. The monuments of that eloquence,
which was admired near twenty years at Antioch and Constantinople, have been carefully preserved;
and the possession of near one thousand sermons, or homilies has authorized the critics of
succeeding times to appreciate the genuine merit of Chrysostom. They unanimously attribute
to the Christian orator the free command of an elegant and copious language; the judgment to
conceal the advantages which he derived from the knowledge of rhetoric and philosophy; an inexhaustible
fund of metaphors and similitudes of ideas and images, to vary and illustrate the most familiar
topics; the happy art of engaging the passions in the service of virtue; and of exposing the
folly, as well as the turpitude, of vice, almost with the truth and spirit of a dramatic representation.

The pastoral labors of the archbishop of Constantinople provoked, and gradually united against
him, two sorts of enemies; the aspiring clergy, who envied his success, and the obstinate sinners,
who were offended by his reproofs. When Chrysostom thundered, from the pulpit of St. Sophia,
against the degeneracy of the Christians, his shafts were spent among the crowd, without wounding,
or even marking, the character of any individual. When he declaimed against the peculiar vices
of the rich, poverty might obtain a transient consolation from his invectives; but the guilty
were still sheltered by their numbers; and the reproach itself was dignified by some ideas
of superiority and enjoyment. But as the pyramid rose towards the summit, it insensibly diminished
to a point; and the magistrates, the ministers, the favorite eunuchs, the ladies of the court,
the empress Eudoxia herself, had a much larger share of guilt to divide among a smaller proportion
of criminals. The personal applications of the audience were anticipated, or confirmed, by
the testimony of their own conscience; and the intrepid preacher assumed the dangerous right
of exposing both the offence and the offender to the public abhorrence. The secret resentment
of the court encouraged the discontent of the clergy and monks of Constantinople, who were
too hastily reformed by the fervent zeal of their archbishop. He had condemned, from the pulpit,
the domestic females of the clergy of Constantinople, who, under the name of servants, or sisters,
afforded a perpetual occasion either of sin or of scandal. The silent and solitary ascetics,
who had secluded themselves from the world, were entitled to the warmest approbation of Chrysostom;
but he despised and stigmatized, as the disgrace of their holy profession, the crowd of degenerate
monks, who, from some unworthy motives of pleasure or profit, so frequently infested the streets
of the capital. To the voice of persuasion, the archbishop was obliged to add the terrors of
authority; and his ardor, in the exercise of ecclesiastical jurisdiction, was not always exempt
from passion; nor was it always guided by prudence. Chrysostom was naturally of a choleric
disposition. Although he struggled, according to the precepts of the gospel, to love his private
enemies, he indulged himself in the privilege of hating the enemies of God and of the church;
and his sentiments were sometimes delivered with too much energy of countenance and expression.
He still maintained, from some considerations of health or abstinence, his former habits of
taking his repasts alone; and this inhospitable custom, which his enemies imputed to pride,
contributed, at least, to nourish the infirmity of a morose and unsocial humor. Separated from
that familiar intercourse, which facilitates the knowledge and the despatch of business, he
reposed an unsuspecting confidence in his deacon Serapion; and seldom applied his speculative
knowledge of human nature to the particular character, either of his dependants, or of his
equals. Conscious of the purity of his intentions, and perhaps of the superiority of his genius,
the archbishop of Constantinople extended the jurisdiction of the Imperial city, that he might
enlarge the sphere of his pastoral labors; and the conduct which the profane imputed to an
ambitious motive, appeared to Chrysostom himself in the light of a sacred and indispensable
duty. In his visitation through the Asiatic provinces, he deposed thirteen bishops of Lydia
and Phrygia; and indiscreetly declared that a deep corruption of simony and licentiousness
had infected the whole episcopal order. If those bishops were innocent, such a rash and unjust
condemnation must excite a well-grounded discontent. If they were guilty, the numerous associates
of their guilt would soon discover that their own safety depended on the ruin of the archbishop;
whom they studied to represent as the tyrant of the Eastern church.

This ecclesiastical conspiracy was managed by Theophilus, archbishop of Alexandria, an active
and ambitious prelate, who displayed the fruits of rapine in monuments of ostentation. His
national dislike to the rising greatness of a city which degraded him from the second to the
third rank in the Christian world, was exasperated by some personal dispute with Chrysostom
himself. By the private invitation of the empress, Theophilus landed at Constantinople with
a stout body of Egyptian mariners, to encounter the populace; and a train of dependent bishops,
to secure, by their voices, the majority of a synod. The synod was convened in the suburb of
Chalcedon, surnamed the Oak, where Rufinus had erected a stately church and monastery; and
their proceedings were continued during fourteen days, or sessions. A bishop and a deacon accused
the archbishop of Constantinople; but the frivolous or improbable nature of the forty-seven
articles which they presented against him, may justly be considered as a fair and unexceptional
panegyric. Four successive summons were signified to Chrysostom; but he still refused to trust
either his person or his reputation in the hands of his implacable enemies, who, prudently
declining the examination of any particular charges, condemned his contumacious disobedience,
and hastily pronounced a sentence of deposition. The synod of the Oak immediately addressed
the emperor to ratify and execute their judgment, and charitably insinuated, that the penalties
of treason might be inflicted on the audacious preacher, who had reviled, under the name of
Jezebel, the empress Eudoxia herself. The archbishop was rudely arrested, and conducted through
the city, by one of the Imperial messengers, who landed him, after a short navigation, near
the entrance of the Euxine; from whence, before the expiration of two days, he was gloriously
recalled.

The first astonishment of his faithful people had been mute and passive: they suddenly rose
with unanimous and irresistible fury. Theophilus escaped, but the promiscuous crowd of monks
and Egyptian mariners was slaughtered without pity in the streets of Constantinople. A seasonable
earthquake justified the interposition of Heaven; the torrent of sedition rolled forwards to
the gates of the palace; and the empress, agitated by fear or remorse, threw herself at the
feet of Arcadius, and confessed that the public safety could be purchased only by the restoration
of Chrysostom. The Bosphorus was covered with innumerable vessels; the shores of Europe and
Asia were profusely illuminated; and the acclamations of a victorious people accompanied, from
the port to the cathedral, the triumph of the archbishop; who, too easily, consented to resume
the exercise of his functions, before his sentence had been legally reversed by the authority
of an ecclesiastical synod. Ignorant, or careless, of the impending danger, Chrysostom indulged
his zeal, or perhaps his resentment; declaimed with peculiar asperity against female vices;
and condemned the profane honors which were addressed, almost in the precincts of St. Sophia,
to the statue of the empress. His imprudence tempted his enemies to inflame the haughty spirit
of Eudoxia, by reporting, or perhaps inventing, the famous exordium of a sermon, "Herodias
is again furious; Herodias again dances; she once more requires the head of John;" an insolent
allusion, which, as a woman and a sovereign, it was impossible for her to forgive. The short
interval of a perfidious truce was employed to concert more effectual measures for the disgrace
and ruin of the archbishop. A numerous council of the Eastern prelates, who were guided from
a distance by the advice of Theophilus, confirmed the validity, without examining the justice,
of the former sentence; and a detachment of Barbarian troops was introduced into the city,
to suppress the emotions of the people. On the vigil of Easter, the solemn administration of
baptism was rudely interrupted by the soldiers, who alarmed the modesty of the naked catechumens,
and violated, by their presence, the awful mysteries of the Christian worship. Arsacius occupied
the church of St. Sophia, and the archiepiscopal throne. The Catholics retreated to the baths
of Constantine, and afterwards to the fields; where they were still pursued and insulted by
the guards, the bishops, and the magistrates. The fatal day of the second and final exile of
Chrysostom was marked by the conflagration of the cathedral, of the senate-house, and of the
adjacent buildings; and this calamity was imputed, without proof, but not without probability,
to the despair of a persecuted faction.

Cicero might claim some merit, if his voluntary banishment preserved the peace of the republic;
but the submission of Chrysostom was the indispensable duty of a Christian and a subject. Instead
of listening to his humble prayer, that he might be permitted to reside at Cyzicus, or Nicomedia,
the inflexible empress assigned for his exile the remote and desolate town of Cucusus, among
the ridges of Mount Taurus, in the Lesser Armenia. A secret hope was entertained, that the
archbishop might perish in a difficult and dangerous march of seventy days, in the heat of
summer, through the provinces of Asia Minor, where he was continually threatened by the hostile
attacks of the Isaurians, and the more implacable fury of the monks. Yet Chrysostom arrived
in safety at the place of his confinement; and the three years which he spent at Cucusus, and
the neighboring town of Arabissus, were the last and most glorious of his life. His character
was consecrated by absence and persecution; the faults of his administration were no longer
remembered; but every tongue repeated the praises of his genius and virtue: and the respectful
attention of the Christian world was fixed on a desert spot among the mountains of Taurus.
From that solitude the archbishop, whose active mind was invigorated by misfortunes, maintained
a strict and frequent correspondence with the most distant provinces; exhorted the separate
congregation of his faithful adherents to persevere in their allegiance; urged the destruction
of the temples of Phnicia, and the extirpation of heresy in the Isle of Cyprus; extended his
pastoral care to the missions of Persia and Scythia; negotiated, by his ambassadors, with the
Roman pontiff and the emperor Honorius; and boldly appealed, from a partial synod, to the supreme
tribunal of a free and general council. The mind of the illustrious exile was still independent;
but his captive body was exposed to the revenge of the oppressors, who continued to abuse the
name and authority of Arcadius. An order was despatched for the instant removal of Chrysostom
to the extreme desert of Pityus: and his guards so faithfully obeyed their cruel instructions,
that, before he reached the sea-coast of the Euxine, he expired at Comana, in Pontus, in the
sixtieth year of his age. The succeeding generation acknowledged his innocence and merit. The
archbishops of the East, who might blush that their predecessors had been the enemies of Chrysostom,
were gradually disposed, by the firmness of the Roman pontiff, to restore the honors of that
venerable name. At the pious solicitation of the clergy and people of Constantinople, his relics,
thirty years after his death, were transported from their obscure sepulchre to the royal city.
The emperor Theodosius advanced to receive them as far as Chalcedon; and, falling prostrate
on the coffin, implored, in the name of his guilty parents, Arcadius and Eudoxia, the forgiveness
of the injured saint.

Yet a reasonable doubt may be entertained, whether any stain of hereditary guilt could be derived
from Arcadius to his successor. Eudoxia was a young and beautiful woman, who indulged her passions,
and despised her husband; Count John enjoyed, at least, the familiar confidence of the empress;
and the public named him as the real father of Theodosius the younger. The birth of a son was
accepted, however, by the pious husband, as an event the most fortunate and honorable to himself,
to his family, and to the Eastern world: and the royal infant, by an unprecedented favor, was
invested with the titles of Cæsar and Augustus. In less than four years afterwards, Eudoxia,
in the bloom of youth, was destroyed by the consequences of a miscarriage; and this untimely
death confounded the prophecy of a holy bishop, who, amidst the universal joy, had ventured
to foretell, that she should behold the long and auspicious reign of her glorious son. The
Catholics applauded the justice of Heaven, which avenged the persecution of St. Chrysostom;
and perhaps the emperor was the only person who sincerely bewailed the loss of the haughty
and rapacious Eudoxia. Such a domestic misfortune afflicted him more deeply than the public
calamities of the East; the licentious excursions, from Pontus to Palestine, of the Isaurian
robbers, whose impunity accused the weakness of the government; and the earthquakes, the conflagrations,
the famine, and the flights of locusts, which the popular discontent was equally disposed to
attribute to the incapacity of the monarch. At length, in the thirty-first year of his age,
after a reign (if we may abuse that word) of thirteen years, three months, and fifteen days,
Arcadius expired in the palace of Constantinople. It is impossible to delineate his character;
since, in a period very copiously furnished with historical materials, it has not been possible
to remark one action that properly belongs to the son of the great Theodosius.

The historian Procopius has indeed illuminated the mind of the dying emperor with a ray of
human prudence, or celestial wisdom. Arcadius considered, with anxious foresight, the helpless
condition of his son Theodosius, who was no more than seven years of age, the dangerous factions
of a minority, and the aspiring spirit of Jezdegerd, the Persian monarch. Instead of tempting
the allegiance of an ambitious subject, by the participation of supreme power, he boldly appealed
to the magnanimity of a king; and placed, by a solemn testament, the sceptre of the East in
the hands of Jezdegerd himself. The royal guardian accepted and discharged this honorable trust
with unexampled fidelity; and the infancy of Theodosius was protected by the arms and councils
of Persia. Such is the singular narrative of Procopius; and his veracity is not disputed by
Agathias, while he presumes to dissent from his judgment, and to arraign the wisdom of a Christian
emperor, who, so rashly, though so fortunately, committed his son and his dominions to the
unknown faith of a stranger, a rival, and a heathen. At the distance of one hundred and fifty
years, this political question might be debated in the court of Justinian; but a prudent historian
will refuse to examine the propriety, till he has ascertained the truth, of the testament of
Arcadius. As it stands without a parallel in the history of the world, we may justly require,
that it should be attested by the positive and unanimous evidence of contemporaries. The strange
novelty of the event, which excites our distrust, must have attracted their notice; and their
universal silence annihilates the vain tradition of the succeeding age.

The maxims of Roman jurisprudence, if they could fairly be transferred from private property
to public dominion, would have adjudged to the emperor Honorius the guardianship of his nephew,
till he had attained, at least, the fourteenth year of his age. But the weakness of Honorius,
and the calamities of his reign, disqualified him from prosecuting this natural claim; and
such was the absolute separation of the two monarchies, both in interest and affection, that
Constantinople would have obeyed, with less reluctance, the orders of the Persian, than those
of the Italian, court. Under a prince whose weakness is disguised by the external signs of
manhood and discretion, the most worthless favorites may secretly dispute the empire of the
palace; and dictate to submissive provinces the commands of a master, whom they direct and
despise. But the ministers of a child, who is incapable of arming them with the sanction of
the royal name, must acquire and exercise an independent authority. The great officers of the
state and army, who had been appointed before the death of Arcadius, formed an aristocracy,
which might have inspired them with the idea of a free republic; and the government of the
Eastern empire was fortunately assumed by the præfect Anthemius, who obtained, by his superior
abilities, a lasting ascendant over the minds of his equals. The safety of the young emperor
proved the merit and integrity of Anthemius; and his prudent firmness sustained the force and
reputation of an infant reign. Uldin, with a formidable host of Barbarians, was encamped in
the heart of Thrace; he proudly rejected all terms of accommodation; and, pointing to the rising
sun, declared to the Roman ambassadors, that the course of that planet should alone terminate
the conquest of the Huns. But the desertion of his confederates, who were privately convinced
of the justice and liberality of the Imperial ministers, obliged Uldin to repass the Danube:
the tribe of the Scyrri, which composed his rear-guard, was almost extirpated; and many thousand
captives were dispersed to cultivate, with servile labor, the fields of Asia. In the midst
of the public triumph, Constantinople was protected by a strong enclosure of new and more extensive
walls; the same vigilant care was applied to restore the fortifications of the Illyrian cities;
and a plan was judiciously conceived, which, in the space of seven years, would have secured
the command of the Danube, by establishing on that river a perpetual fleet of two hundred and
fifty armed vessels.

But the Romans had so long been accustomed to the authority of a monarch, that the first, even
among the females, of the Imperial family, who displayed any courage or capacity, was permitted
to ascend the vacant throne of Theodosius. His sister Pulcheria, who was only two years older
than himself, received, at the age of sixteen, the title of Augusta; and though her favor might
be sometimes clouded by caprice or intrigue, she continued to govern the Eastern empire near
forty years; during the long minority of her brother, and after his death, in her own name,
and in the name of Marcian, her nominal husband. From a motive either of prudence or religion,
she embraced a life of celibacy; and notwithstanding some aspersions on the chastity of Pulcheria,
this resolution, which she communicated to her sisters Arcadia and Marina, was celebrated by
the Christian world, as the sublime effort of heroic piety. In the presence of the clergy and
people, the three daughters of Arcadius dedicated their virginity to God; and the obligation
of their solemn vow was inscribed on a tablet of gold and gems; which they publicly offered
in the great church of Constantinople. Their palace was converted into a monastery; and all
males, except the guides of their conscience, the saints who had forgotten the distinction
of sexes, were scrupulously excluded from the holy threshold. Pulcheria, her two sisters, and
a chosen train of favorite damsels, formed a religious community: they denounced the vanity
of dress; interrupted, by frequent fasts, their simple and frugal diet; allotted a portion
of their time to works of embroidery; and devoted several hours of the day and night to the
exercises of prayer and psalmody. The piety of a Christian virgin was adorned by the zeal and
liberality of an empress. Ecclesiastical history describes the splendid churches, which were
built at the expense of Pulcheria, in all the provinces of the East; her charitable foundations
for the benefit of strangers and the poor; the ample donations which she assigned for the perpetual
maintenance of monastic societies; and the active severity with which she labored to suppress
the opposite heresies of Nestorius and Eutyches. Such virtues were supposed to deserve the
peculiar favor of the Deity: and the relics of martyrs, as well as the knowledge of future
events, were communicated in visions and revelations to the Imperial saint. Yet the devotion
of Pulcheria never diverted her indefatigable attention from temporal affairs; and she alone,
among all the descendants of the great Theodosius, appears to have inherited any share of his
manly spirit and abilities. The elegant and familiar use which she had acquired, both of the
Greek and Latin languages, was readily applied to the various occasions of speaking or writing,
on public business: her deliberations were maturely weighed; her actions were prompt and decisive;
and, while she moved, without noise or ostentation, the wheel of government, she discreetly
attributed to the genius of the emperor the long tranquillity of his reign. In the last years
of his peaceful life, Europe was indeed afflicted by the arms of war; but the more extensive
provinces of Asia still continued to enjoy a profound and permanent repose. Theodosius the
younger was never reduced to the disgraceful necessity of encountering and punishing a rebellious
subject: and since we cannot applaud the vigor, some praise may be due to the mildness and
prosperity, of the administration of Pulcheria.

The Roman world was deeply interested in the education of its master. A regular course of study
and exercise was judiciously instituted; of the military exercises of riding, and shooting
with the bow; of the liberal studies of grammar, rhetoric, and philosophy: the most skilful
masters of the East ambitiously solicited the attention of their royal pupil; and several noble
youths were introduced into the palace, to animate his diligence by the emulation of friendship.
Pulcheria alone discharged the important task of instructing her brother in the arts of government;
but her precepts may countenance some suspicions of the extent of her capacity, or of the purity
of her intentions. She taught him to maintain a grave and majestic deportment; to walk, to
hold his robes, to seat himself on his throne, in a manner worthy of a great prince; to abstain
from laughter; to listen with condescension; to return suitable answers; to assume, by turns,
a serious or a placid countenance: in a word, to represent with grace and dignity the external
figure of a Roman emperor. But Theodosius was never excited to support the weight and glory
of an illustrious name: and, instead of aspiring to support his ancestors, he degenerated (if
we may presume to measure the degrees of incapacity) below the weakness of his father and his
uncle. Arcadius and Honorius had been assisted by the guardian care of a parent, whose lessons
were enforced by his authority and example. But the unfortunate prince, who is born in the
purple, must remain a stranger to the voice of truth; and the son of Arcadius was condemned
to pass his perpetual infancy encompassed only by a servile train of women and eunuchs. The
ample leisure which he acquired by neglecting the essential duties of his high office, was
filled by idle amusements and unprofitable studies. Hunting was the only active pursuit that
could tempt him beyond the limits of the palace; but he most assiduously labored, sometimes
by the light of a midnight lamp, in the mechanic occupations of painting and carving; and the
elegance with which he transcribed religious books entitled the Roman emperor to the singular
epithet of Calligraphes, or a fair writer. Separated from the world by an impenetrable veil,
Theodosius trusted the persons whom he loved; he loved those who were accustomed to amuse and
flatter his indolence; and as he never perused the papers that were presented for the royal
signature, the acts of injustice the most repugnant to his character were frequently perpetrated
in his name. The emperor himself was chaste, temperate, liberal, and merciful; but these qualities,
which can only deserve the name of virtues when they are supported by courage and regulated
by discretion, were seldom beneficial, and they sometimes proved mischievous, to mankind. His
mind, enervated by a royal education, was oppressed and degraded by abject superstition: he
fasted, he sung psalms, he blindly accepted the miracles and doctrines with which his faith
was continually nourished. Theodosius devoutly worshipped the dead and living saints of the
Catholic church; and he once refused to eat, till an insolent monk, who had cast an excommunication
on his sovereign, condescended to heal the spiritual wound which he had inflicted.

The story of a fair and virtuous maiden, exalted from a private condition to the Imperial throne,
might be deemed an incredible romance, if such a romance had not been verified in the marriage
of Theodosius. The celebrated Athenais was educated by her father Leontius in the religion
and sciences of the Greeks; and so advantageous was the opinion which the Athenian philosopher
entertained of his contemporaries, that he divided his patrimony between his two sons, bequeathing
to his daughter a small legacy of one hundred pieces of gold, in the lively confidence that
her beauty and merit would be a sufficient portion. The jealousy and avarice of her brothers
soon compelled Athenais to seek a refuge at Constantinople; and, with some hopes, either of
justice or favor, to throw herself at the feet of Pulcheria. That sagacious princess listened
to her eloquent complaint; and secretly destined the daughter of the philosopher Leontius for
the future wife of the emperor of the East, who had now attained the twentieth year of his
age. She easily excited the curiosity of her brother, by an interesting picture of the charms
of Athenais; large eyes, a well-proportioned nose, a fair complexion, golden locks, a slender
person, a graceful demeanor, an understanding improved by study, and a virtue tried by distress.
Theodosius, concealed behind a curtain in the apartment of his sister, was permitted to behold
the Athenian virgin: the modest youth immediately declared his pure and honorable love; and
the royal nuptials were celebrated amidst the acclamations of the capital and the provinces.
Athenais, who was easily persuaded to renounce the errors of Paganism, received at her baptism
the Christian name of Eudocia; but the cautious Pulcheria withheld the title of Augusta, till
the wife of Theodosius had approved her fruitfulness by the birth of a daughter, who espoused,
fifteen years afterwards, the emperor of the West. The brothers of Eudocia obeyed, with some
anxiety, her Imperial summons; but as she could easily forgive their unfortunate unkindness,
she indulged the tenderness, or perhaps the vanity, of a sister, by promoting them to the rank
of consuls and præfects. In the luxury of the palace, she still cultivated those ingenuous
arts which had contributed to her greatness; and wisely dedicated her talents to the honor
of religion, and of her husband. Eudocia composed a poetical paraphrase of the first eight
books of the Old Testament, and of the prophecies of Daniel and Zechariah; a cento of the verses
of Homer, applied to the life and miracles of Christ, the legend of St. Cyprian, and a panegyric
on the Persian victories of Theodosius; and her writings, which were applauded by a servile
and superstitious age, have not been disdained by the candor of impartial criticism. Your wife abused all
year long undisturbed Silvi. Where are your eyes? Are you a father or an entrepreneur? Good night,
good night, I think I have it no longer necessary to wait and hear what you say on such a strange
performance. I assume I'm fired. "Are you drunk? Hey, "Tobler said nothing. The assistant had
already climbed up the stairs.

Before the door of the tower room, he suddenly stopped: "I'm quite
mad?"

And he ran as fast as he could back down the steps. Mr. Brown was still sitting in the living room. Joseph
remained, as before, the woman on the threshold, and said he was sorry, indecent senseless way and to
have behaved himself in, he regretted, but he noticed that he had not yet released -. If Mr. Professional
have yet to discuss Tobler: Joseph was available. Tobler screamed as loud as he could: "My wife
is a goose, and you are one crazy guy. Those damned books! "He took the Leihbibliothekbuch and threw it to the
ground. He was looking for offensive words in his memory, but could
not find.

Said the part he had found, too little, sometimes too much again.

"Robber" hovered on the tongue, but the word could not even do offend.

His anger knew no bounds as a result of his confusion. He would have said dog ", but the word
was then put to shame any reason. He was silent, as he has been unable saw his opponent in a decent way
to overthrow. Finally, he laughed. No, he yelled. "Make that up in your nest, you come immediately."
Joseph thought it Geratenste, move too. Top, he remained in the rooms are long, the smallest without
being able to think. Only one thought it flickered like a wisp before consciousness: he had
his salary and still not allowed to - such follies. - How would it
be tomorrow?

He resolved to throw himself to the woman's feet.

How absurd! the impossibility of being able to think, tortured, he stepped out onto the platform. It was
a dry, cold night. The sky glowed and glittered and froze full of stars. It was as if all the
stars were cold that prevailed, the earth hinunterstrahlten on. On the dark highway was still a human
being. The metallic shoes clattered on the stones. Everything out there seemed to be steel or
stone from. The silence of the night itself seemed to rattle sound, too.
Joseph thought of skates, then bronze, then suddenly Wirsich.

How it might now happen to the? He had the feeling of a quiet Freundschaftsempfinden for these people.
The sure he met yet again at some time. But where? He stepped back into his room and undressed.
In this moment there was a cry Silvis. "There is the little girl again pulled out of the bed. Oh,
how cold, "he thought. He listened for a while, put up in bed, but he heard nothing more and
fell asleep. * * * * * In the morning he crept trembling to the office down and discouraged.
He thought: "Will they expel me, eh? this leave? house, "Yes, felt that he loved him as it turned
I was, and he thought:" How did I live, may, without committing to fool? And in this house
I could commit so pretty stupid things.

What will it be elsewhere hereby ordered?

And as I can remember, to exist without coffee to drink by Tobler? Who will give me something to
eat to fill anywhere else? And so comfortable and so diverse?

In other places, the food is so boring, so utterly the opposite of
lush!

And in whose to-clean and uncovered beds afterwards I will lay me sleep? In a comfortable arch well!
Steady! Oh God, it should already be so far?

And how can I continue to breathe without the present of this lovely
in winter, scenic area?

And how do I want to be entertained in the evening, as now with the lovely, beautiful woman Tobler?
Whose to say rude things? Not all people take it so special, so strange, so beautiful in reception.
How sad. How I love this house! And where is a lamp burning, so tenderly, and where to be a living
room, so cozy, so warm, full as Tobler and living room lamps? What makes me despondent. And how
can my thoughts, without advertising such as Clock, Automatic Rifle, patient chair and deep hole
drilling machine to have everyday items, also do? Yes, that will make me unhappy, I know. I am
bound here, I live here. How strange, I am devoted: and Tobler deep, rumbling voice, how bitter I
will dispense with their sound. Why does not he come yet? I want to know where I am. Yes, everything
das. What? Where is such a summer me back the lush, green arms and to the flowering and fragrant
chest press in, as was, which I have here above may enjoy to do? Where, in what region of the
world, there are such tower room? Pauline and such? Although I have quarreled with the frequent it
myself, it is also finally to the beautiful. How did it expect me miserable. Here I was allowed
to 'be' headless, at least to some degree. I would like to know which parts of the civilized world,
which still would be allowed then? And the garden, which I have often injected, and the cave? Where
are you me?

People like me enjoy the convenience of anywhere else and the charm of gardens. Am I lost? What
I feel miserable, I think I'm going to have to smoke a cigar. This too will miss you. Be it.
"- When he still thought of the flag of the summer, he found himself compelled to grin, not like
a wimp to have to cry suddenly. Then came Mr. Tobler to the office, as always, orderly saying
good morning. Nothing To hunt out-of-home. Nothing like that! Joseph sat humble and obliging
to his face, he was incredibly happy that it is not "far" was so still. He sat down almost passionately
behind the execution of existing business functions today, and he turned his chair around to all
the moments so that he could see what was on his desk Tobler. Tobler did the ordinary. What he had
had an attack yesterday on there? asked the boss in incredibly friendly tone. "Yes, that was stupid,"
said the assistant, shy and embarrassed smile. He need not fears. His salary he had wars, Tobler
growled. "Oh, I want no salary. I do not deserve it.

"Foolishness," Tobler said, "I am, some headless, you are guilty of, other than satisfied
with you. And if I get the factory to their participation I applied, so hopefully we will still
stay together. One case is also an accountant can do this in.

"Later came the boss.

Dora was on this day became ill, not seriously. It was just a little cold, but this was enough
to maintain the girl, as if their last day approached. Dora was on the sofa in the living room,
and as adventitious Joseph said he wanted to go to the post, it was toward evening, he had to
promise Dora, her few oranges or oranges from a Gourmet Shop bring
one, which he also did so.

During the supper Mrs. Tobler talked constantly to the small, charming
indisposed across, in the direction of the Ruhbett.

Silvi
opened his eyes wide and held his mouth wide open as they should
think about how it happens that you can pin-ill be.

Why was it never really Silvi sick? Was it for nothing?

Did the nature denied her this beautiful state?

Was it too small to be able to get a little cold? You would have loved even more tender than usual,
but once a little warmer and milder than usual have been treated. Dora! No! Silvi watched her little
sister, and amazed at how, when she would not have been able to explain himself, as the lie was
so sick as well. "Put the spoon from his mouth, Silvi.

I can not stand, "said Mrs. Tobler.

Her face seemed to have received expressions, in a moment that two lovely and smooth for Dora,
and an underlying wrinkled and stern for Silvi. At the same time the woman looked briefly
at the employees when researching it on his face after what he might think or say about it.
But Joseph's face smiled with Dora over. This was by no means a miracle,
the people are just her eyes with a preference to where the watch is
and shapely beauty, no meaning in manner with a teaspoon in an expressionless
mouth herumgerührt is unappetizing where .

     
     Doras full face looked graceful snow-white pillow out of whom scattered,
     and caves in the down impressions and brought the oranges lying around.

This lovely, lush child's mouth. These small, but almost consciously beautiful and graceful movements.
This pleading, love, light voice that confidence! Yes, Dora, were allowed to trust you, you saw
every moment of your wife, mom face goodness you entgegenstrahlen. As there was poor Silvi. Would this
girl thought to have come to be the ever to be desired, they should oranges from the Delikateßwarengeschäften
bring home with her? Under no circumstances. This she knew too well how much everyone was
inclined to refuse their requests. Your prayers were no requests, but only stammered envy.
She asked only if Dora had long desired her.

She never came to a first request. The requests were all Silvis request copies of their ideas were
not ideas, but only imitations of those that Dora had at first. A true child's heart is only for
fresh ideas, a beat and never despised. The real prayer is always first, never second-rate,
just as the true work of art. Silvi was just after all the second, third, and perhaps even the
seventh rank. All she said was forged from the wrong tone and baked,
and all they did was stale.

How old Silvi in its early years was already flowering. What injustice! - Joseph had covered
a moment while he looked at Dora. If you looked to, could have a clear picture of their counterparts
do, and had then not necessary to test and comparative eyes only
long on Silvi to throw still.

When that was sad. These two dissimilar children! Joseph would have on the ground of his thinking
out like audible sigh. As her Dora sleeping bed should be carried up in real now, he came towards
her and was so affected by the sight of her pert-innocent nature that he otherwise could not, as her
hand to kiss the small one. This Huldigungskuß he wanted to caress the two types were, the Dora-type
and the Silvi-Art. But how could he actually kind of homage to the
second?

Impossible! He tried to think of the young and bitterness at page-Shunted something comforting
and respectful to say at least, by unspoken with his mouth on the hand of sisterly love and grace
of nature expressed that. Tobler wife saw it. His behavior took their applause. "A curious man, this
Marti," thought she, "since he has scolded me because of Silvi yesterday, and now he is here myself
half in love with Dora." - She smiled graciously and said to Dora, because she must in their hands
to keep neat future, however, if they wanted to get those kisses it and also laughed. Silvi
For she said, she spoiled her face said good night, she should collect better and no more reason to
give her hard on her be, then it was too good to her. It would be a shame to treat them and how
to repeatedly punish. They now expect once belonging improvement. Silvi am getting older. March.
You ought to go. First was the sound of speech affectionate sound
to short this, but then, as if he had the gentleness and impossible
seemed inappropriate, he was the hardness hinübergesprungen in, in
increments, until he himself in a commanding "march" least, broke
off .

When the four children were gone, was "Jass" started a. The assistant
had already quite considerable skill in the exercise of this game
become one, he proved it, and won almost continuously, which caused
him carefully his words to choose the most completely because he irritated
the woman in the habit of gambling losses to burst forth in, just
knew.

They played for an hour, time to time by sipping glasses of red wine again, like the night before.
Suddenly said Mrs. Tobler, by interrupting the game, "You know it already, Marti, that man did to my mother
sends me? Yes, it is so, and I will go tomorrow morning on the train
to her to make a visit.

We must indeed have the money now, or we are lost, and it sends anything. It is very stingy, at least
they keep their money together sharply. You will be able to imagine how uncomfortable my journey
now is one such, but it must be. This woman I've seen more not so long already, I know very little,
would I have to ask, yes, Marti! And it is cold to me to be from the top down, which I feel only too
clearly. It will be so easy for them to hurt me to hurt me, because after you treat even a beggar
woman, not just touches someone with kid gloves. It has always been my way a bit 'on the train'
had of, I have always felt. As if I have always been her son, my husband would have brought only
disaster. And they will oppose me now, of course, how a sinner.

It will
be my clothes I am wearing, blame the body, the unnecessary elegance of it, the incredibly good cut
unnecessary. No, the new dress I'm not even allowed to wear. This also has no purpose. One that comes
along, for Heisch, should go black, I am old, black silk dress, the dress that makes a very submissive
impression. Yes, yes, Joseph, you see, others have to tolerate and
even to compel and herabwinden modesty.

It's just so you do not know where and how and why so quickly. This world, "-" Let's hope you have
success, "remarked the assistant. She continued: "That sends me Tobler, too, because it is the
view that his mother, my appearance at such a difficult and sensitive time would be more pleasant
than his own. Otherwise, I see, however, no reason why he could not
go himself.

A piece may well be there for his convenience. The men like to take the business to be unfeeling
and dry. Where, however, a personal-inner victim concerns to a work obligation and sincere character,
overcoming purely psychological, as they prefer to push women to
the front and usually say: 'You go!

You do it better than me!

" what is still a kind of grace and is forced to be regarded as almost caress. They both laughed.
Tobler woman began again: "Yes, you laugh! Incidentally, I forbid you not. You just laugh. I've also
laughed, although it should be two of us really serious about courage. Yes, we hope that I will succeed. Otherwise,
what am I saying! I have my hopes that in relation to Tobler's business success yet again pretend,
always long since abandoned them. It is now this way: the confidence
in my husband's business acumen is in me to waver then thoroughly.

I now believe to be convinced that he was not cunning enough not heartlessness has enough profitable
business to be able to make. He has to believe in all that time, only the sound of this smart
and clever people of my adopted, the external behavior, mannerisms, but also the skills. Certainly,
there must be one, makes good business which, because of blood-suckers and not be a bad guy. This
is far from said. But my husband is too temperamental, too quickly, too good and obviously
experiencing. Even he is not too credulous. True, You are surprised to hear so much talk to
me, but believe me, we women, in a corner and to the narrowness of the house constantly tied, we're
thinking about for many, and we see many and feel many things. It's given us a bit to guess things,
here are our sworn enemies Sciences correct time. We know how to look and demeanor to read in
the. We say strangely, never something that we keep silent, because we so generally bad press,
and always so inappropriate that way. Our words stir geschäftsüberladenen mostly the men only,
but never convince. So we women live there, we explain the vast majority of what we produce and with ourselves
is happening around, I agree, talking minor things that we increasingly suspect we are small and
subordinate spirits for the suspension, and are always happy, I think it at least. No, my husband
is not a dry branch on its patents with more to come, the little finger, the shoe on the foot,
my own nose to tell me. He liked to live well, and that may not be a time entrepreneurs.
He is too wild, which hurts. He loves too much his own plans, which
undermines them.

He is a much too cheerful man, and he takes everything too straight,
too suddenly, so much too simple.

He is a beautiful, full of nature, and such natures succeed with such companies never or almost
never. Not true, Marti, I now speak like. "He paused and allowed himself
to an imperceptible smile.

She had already started talking again: "My fear Karl and deceive people both him and laugh him out behind
his back, because they treat him very strangely every conceivable harm, and I think because
he was his wealth and his property to and unabashedly has been open, so that it is in their eyes
must sting. He's always been naive enough to assume other people had joy in his joy and pleasure
of his, what an almost opposite view of the correct position was evident. He has always given with
full hands, that's been a weakness, for example, forgivable in my
eyes, but inexcusable in the verdict of the people who it benefits
enjoyed by this very wasteful, in a word, which have benefited from
him.

He has his special way, a little loud to be harsh and that is called
now, now in disguise, boasting.

If he is successful, it would same habit to say cutter! Yes. No, my husband would have done much
better if he never independently made, are never made on its own feet, but in a modest position
as a technical assistant would be still kept his. We were all so happy back then. Of course we
had no house of his own, but what is needed which, as just such concerns in their own house are not
you? After work, we made our silent walk, pretty around the hill. It was too beautiful to
be so stubborn to throw away, but one day it was just thrown away. "It can still all get on well,
Mrs. Tobler," said Joseph. These words struck like flames in her face. She exclaimed, "You should
not say that. This is disgusting. This does not speak to one of the wife of business man, in whose
books one can see into every day. In this way, task is not to spare and vulnerable woman's heart
with a loaded weight. Why can not all get on well? Go to the oppressors of my husband with this accursed
phrase. Have again made me unhappy again. I will go and try to forget this. "She ran from the room.
The assistant thought," What is there now again? It must soon give each evening, a violent scene?
Soon I'm annoyed, sometimes, soon we two, and soon it crashes again Tobler heart out. Soon the
cries Silvi, sometimes barking of Leo, is soon to Dora ill. Was still lacking that all of us together
one day, lunch or dinner over completely snapped back. Then good night, nice house Tobler! But as far
as we are not yet. Now want to wait until funds once the mother, and then pay our debts in part.
As much as this home is in the life of the other head was not washed my whole me. But even that
may be good. By the way! Have I once again fear? Am I restless? No, God is not much. Tobler has well
again today, in the 'Sail' to stay in the mind. This is apparently also one of my duties, that
I am here now strip society of his wife. The arms, why has no better she shareholders? "He extinguished
the lamp and went to bed. * * * * * The next day, it was again more wet than cold weather and the
air hung heavy, you could see Mrs. Tobler, black silk dressed, go down the hill garden, in order to go
to the station. Tobler, she accompanied a piece down, said to her to remain in good spirits and not catch
cold again in the railway car draft and the like. You could see from above, one smile in the
face of the woman, and a waving handkerchief, which was to Dora, also the mother of waving. How
wet everything was. At this winter it was supposed to be drier and colder, it was thought,
and then disappeared Tobler woman's eyes, the movements to the end
pursued her.

They were Joseph, Pauline, Silvis, Doras, the boys and Leo's been
an eye.

The dog
barked sad as he had seen the lady go away. The whole thing was like when one of his romantic
imagination would have to stiffen, the departure of a queen. Joseph, the vassal would have now if
he was one of those stories to us modern humans hinübergrüßenden loyal subjects would have been old in
need crying bitterly, while the maid Pauline would have uttered lamentation, if it from would have been
those of one who in ancient good times and high queens how the stories teach, have served. And
the dog dragon might have been a, and the children of King's children and Mr. Brown of the powerful
knight figures one that always there were earlier, when it sad farewell for ever were such,
as it castles, city walls and tears of the loyalty still existed. But no. Here it was different.
There was not a perpetual banishment to a desolate rocky island, but only a day's journey by
rail and around a practical and a little unpleasant visit. Even a queen was not the case here,
unless you have Tobler than the anxious queen of the house the evening star woman felt that apart and
strangely did not have quite as can be. No dark heroic figure, but a modern-dressed and described
affener Mr. Tobler gave the lady a little way the escort, in order,
not just comfort, but only a few sensible words to award her.

And from a very troubled boy and vassal was here just as the question and speak as of an even Constitutional
looser maid. Joseph and Pauline, both of these people were standing there, then nobody, except the
children, and they were neither king nor prince children, but simple , civil, as they may have better every
house. Leo was not a dragon.

It would be such a suggestion, perhaps even medieval bite taken ill have one. All in all it was a picture
of the twentieth century.


Vanquished in battle by an inferior army, Castinus fled with dishonor to Tarragona; and this
memorable defeat, which has been represented as the punishment, was most probably the effect,
of his rash presumption. Seville and Carthagena became the reward, or rather the prey, of the
ferocious conquerors; and the vessels which they found in the harbor of Carthagena might easily
transport them to the Isles of Majorca and Minorca, where the Spanish fugitives, as in a secure
recess, had vainly concealed their families and their fortunes. The experience of navigation,
and perhaps the prospect of Africa, encouraged the Vandals to accept the invitation which they
received from Count Boniface; and the death of Gonderic served only to forward and animate
the bold enterprise. The king of the Vandals is described to have been of a middle stature,
with a lameness in one leg, which he had contracted by an accidental fall from his horse. His
slow and cautious speech seldom declared the deep purposes of his soul; he disdained to imitate
the luxury of the vanquished; but he indulged the sterner passions of anger and revenge. The
ambition of Genseric was without bounds and without scruples; and the warrior could dexterously
employ the dark engines of policy to solicit the allies who might be useful to his success,
or to scatter among his enemies the seeds of hatred and contention. Almost in the moment of
his departure he was informed that Hermanric, king of the Suevi, had presumed to ravage the
Spanish territories, which he was resolved to abandon. Impatient of the insult, Genseric pursued
the hasty retreat of the Suevi as far as Merida; precipitated the king and his army into the
River Anas, and calmly returned to the sea-shore to embark his victorious troops. The vessels
which transported the Vandals over the modern Straits of Gibraltar, a channel only twelve miles
in breadth, were furnished by the Spaniards, who anxiously wished their departure; and by the
African general, who had implored their formidable assistance.

Our fancy, so long accustomed to exaggerate and multiply the martial swarms of Barbarians that
seemed to issue from the North, will perhaps be surprised by the account of the army which
Genseric mustered on the coast of Mauritania. The hopes of the bold enterprise had excited
many brave adventurers of the Gothic nation; and many desperate provincials were tempted to
repair their fortunes by the same means which had occasioned their ruin. Yet this various multitude
amounted only to fifty thousand effective men; and though Genseric artfully magnified his apparent
strength, by appointing eighty chiliarchs, or commanders of thousands, the fallacious increase
of old men, of children, and of slaves, would scarcely have swelled his army to the number
of four-score thousand persons. But his own dexterity, and the discontents of Africa, soon
fortified the Vandal powers, by the accession of numerous and active allies. The parts of Mauritania
which border on the Great Desert and the Atlantic Ocean, were filled with a fierce and untractable
race of men, whose savage temper had been exasperated, rather than reclaimed, by their dread
of the Roman arms. The wandering Moors, as they gradually ventured to approach the seashore,
and the camp of the Vandals, must have viewed with terror and astonishment the dress, the armor,
the martial pride and discipline of the unknown strangers who had landed on their coast; and
the fair complexions of the blue-eyed warriors of Germany formed a very singular contrast with
the swarthy or olive hue which is derived from the neighborhood of the torrid zone. After the
first difficulties had in some measure been removed, which arose from the mutual ignorance
of their respective language, the Moors, regardless of any future consequence, embraced the
alliance of the enemies of Rome; and a crowd of naked savages rushed from the woods and valleys
of Mount Atlas, to satiate their revenge on the polished tyrants, who had injuriously expelled
them from the native sovereignty of the land.

The persecution of the Donatists was an event not less favorable to the designs of Genseric.
Seventeen years before he landed in Africa, a public conference was held at Carthage, by the
order of the magistrate. The Catholics were satisfied, that, after the invincible reasons which
they had alleged, the obstinacy of the schismatics must be inexcusable and voluntary; and the
emperor Honorius was persuaded to inflict the most rigorous penalties on a faction which had
so long abused his patience and clemency. A regular scale of fines, from ten to two hundred
pounds of silver, was curiously ascertained, according to the distinction of rank and fortune,
to punish the crime of assisting at a schismatic conventicle; and if the fine had been levied
five times, without subduing the obstinacy of the offender, his future punishment was referred
to the discretion of the Imperial court. By these severities, which obtained the warmest approbation
of St. Augustin, great numbers of Donatists were reconciled to the Catholic Church; but the
fanatics, who still persevered in their opposition, were provoked to madness and despair; the
distracted country was filled with tumult and bloodshed; the armed troops of Circumcellions
alternately pointed their rage against themselves, or against their adversaries; and the calendar
of martyrs received on both sides a considerable augmentation. Under these circumstances, Genseric,
a Christian, but an enemy of the orthodox communion, showed himself to the Donatists as a powerful
deliverer, from whom they might reasonably expect the repeal of the odious and oppressive edicts
of the Roman emperors. The conquest of Africa was facilitated by the active zeal, or the secret
favor, of a domestic faction; the wanton outrages against the churches and the clergy of which
the Vandals are accused, may be fairly imputed to the fanaticism of their allies; and the intolerant
spirit which disgraced the triumph of Christianity, contributed to the loss of the most important
province of the West.

The court and the people were astonished by the strange intelligence, that a virtuous hero,
after so many favors, and so many services, had renounced his allegiance, and invited the Barbarians
to destroy the province intrusted to his command. The friends of Boniface, who still believed
that his criminal behavior might be excused by some honorable motive, solicited, during the
absence of Ætius, a free conference with the Count of Africa; and Darius, an officer of high
distinction, was named for the important embassy. In their first interview at Carthage, the
imaginary provocations were mutually explained; the opposite letters of Ætius were produced
and compared; and the fraud was easily detected. Placidia and Boniface lamented their fatal
error; and the count had sufficient magnanimity to confide in the forgiveness of his sovereign,
or to expose his head to her future resentment. His repentance was fervent and sincere; but
he soon discovered that it was no longer in his power to restore the edifice which he had shaken
to its foundations. Carthage and the Roman garrisons returned with their general to the allegiance
of Valentinian; but the rest of Africa was still distracted with war and faction; and the inexorable
king of the Vandals, disdaining all terms of accommodation, sternly refused to relinquish the
possession of his prey. The band of veterans who marched under the standard of Boniface, and
his hasty levies of provincial troops, were defeated with considerable loss; the victorious
Barbarians insulted the open country; and Carthage, Cirta, and Hippo Regius, were the only
cities that appeared to rise above the general inundation.

The long and narrow tract of the African coast was filled with frequent monuments of Roman
art and magnificence; and the respective degrees of improvement might be accurately measured
by the distance from Carthage and the Mediterranean. A simple reflection will impress every
thinking mind with the clearest idea of fertility and cultivation: the country was extremely
populous; the inhabitants reserved a liberal subsistence for their own use; and the annual
exportation, particularly of wheat, was so regular and plentiful, that Africa deserved the
name of the common granary of Rome and of mankind. On a sudden the seven fruitful provinces,
from Tangier to Tripoli, were overwhelmed by the invasion of the Vandals; whose destructive
rage has perhaps been exaggerated by popular animosity, religious zeal, and extravagant declamation.
War, in its fairest form, implies a perpetual violation of humanity and justice; and the hostilities
of Barbarians are inflamed by the fierce and lawless spirit which incessantly disturbs their
peaceful and domestic society. The Vandals, where they found resistance, seldom gave quarter;
and the deaths of their valiant countrymen were expiated by the ruin of the cities under whose
walls they had fallen. Careless of the distinctions of age, or sex, or rank, they employed
every species of indignity and torture, to force from the captives a discovery of their hidden
wealth. The stern policy of Genseric justified his frequent examples of military execution:
he was not always the master of his own passions, or of those of his followers; and the calamities
of war were aggravated by the licentiousness of the Moors, and the fanaticism of the Donatists.
Yet I shall not easily be persuaded, that it was the common practice of the Vandals to extirpate
the olives, and other fruit trees, of a country where they intended to settle: nor can I believe
that it was a usual stratagem to slaughter great numbers of their prisoners before the walls
of a besieged city, for the sole purpose of infecting the air, and producing a pestilence,
of which they themselves must have been the first victims.

The generous mind of Count Boniface was tortured by the exquisite distress of beholding the
ruin which he had occasioned, and whose rapid progress he was unable to check. After the loss
of a battle he retired into Hippo Regius; where he was immediately besieged by an enemy, who
considered him as the real bulwark of Africa. The maritime colony of Hippo, about two hundred
miles westward of Carthage, had formerly acquired the distinguishing epithet of Regius, from
the residence of Numidian kings; and some remains of trade and populousness still adhere to
the modern city, which is known in Europe by the corrupted name of Bona. The military labors,
and anxious reflections, of Count Boniface, were alleviated by the edifying conversation of
his friend St. Augustin; till that bishop, the light and pillar of the Catholic church, was
gently released, in the third month of the siege, and in the seventy-sixth year of his age,
from the actual and the impending calamities of his country. The youth of Augustin had been
stained by the vices and errors which he so ingenuously confesses; but from the moment of his
conversion to that of his death, the manners of the bishop of Hippo were pure and austere:
and the most conspicuous of his virtues was an ardent zeal against heretics of every denomination;
the Manichæans, the Donatists, and the Pelagians, against whom he waged a perpetual controversy.
When the city, some months after his death, was burnt by the Vandals, the library was fortunately
saved, which contained his voluminous writings; two hundred and thirty-two separate books or
treatises on theological subjects, besides a complete exposition of the psalter and the gospel,
and a copious magazine of epistles and homilies. According to the judgment of the most impartial
critics, the superficial learning of Augustin was confined to the Latin language; and his style,
though sometimes animated by the eloquence of passion, is usually clouded by false and affected
rhetoric. But he possessed a strong, capacious, argumentative mind; he boldly sounded the dark
abyss of grace, predestination, free will, and original sin; and the rigid system of Christianity
which he framed or restored, has been entertained, with public applause, and secret reluctance,
by the Latin church.

Chapter XXXIII: Conquest Of Africa By The Vandals.--Part II.

By the skill of Boniface, and perhaps by the ignorance of the Vandals, the siege of Hippo was
protracted above fourteen months: the sea was continually open; and when the adjacent country
had been exhausted by irregular rapine, the besiegers themselves were compelled by famine to
relinquish their enterprise. The importance and danger of Africa were deeply felt by the regent
of the West. Placidia implored the assistance of her eastern ally; and the Italian fleet and
army were reënforced by Asper, who sailed from Constantinople with a powerful armament. As
soon as the force of the two empires was united under the command of Boniface, he boldly marched
against the Vandals; and the loss of a second battle irretrievably decided the fate of Africa.
He embarked with the precipitation of despair; and the people of Hippo were permitted, with
their families and effects, to occupy the vacant place of the soldiers, the greatest part of
whom were either slain or made prisoners by the Vandals. The count, whose fatal credulity had
wounded the vitals of the republic, might enter the palace of Ravenna with some anxiety, which
was soon removed by the smiles of Placidia. Boniface accepted with gratitude the rank of patrician,
and the dignity of master-general of the Roman armies; but he must have blushed at the sight
of those medals, in which he was represented with the name and attributes of victory. The discovery
of his fraud, the displeasure of the empress, and the distinguished favor of his rival, exasperated
the haughty and perfidious soul of Ætius. He hastily returned from Gaul to Italy, with a retinue,
or rather with an army, of Barbarian followers; and such was the weakness of the government,
that the two generals decided their private quarrel in a bloody battle. Boniface was successful;
but he received in the conflict a mortal wound from the spear of his adversary, of which he
expired within a few days, in such Christian and charitable sentiments, that he exhorted his
wife, a rich heiress of Spain, to accept Ætius for her second husband. But Ætius could not
derive any immediate advantage from the generosity of his dying enemy: he was proclaimed a
rebel by the justice of Placidia; and though he attempted to defend some strong fortresses,
erected on his patrimonial estate, the Imperial power soon compelled him to retire into Pannonia,
to the tents of his faithful Huns. The republic was deprived, by their mutual discord, of the
service of her two most illustrious champions.

It might naturally be expected, after the retreat of Boniface, that the Vandals would achieve,
without resistance or delay, the conquest of Africa. Eight years, however, elapsed, from the
evacuation of Hippo to the reduction of Carthage. In the midst of that interval, the ambitious
Genseric, in the full tide of apparent prosperity, negotiated a treaty of peace, by which he
gave his son Hunneric for a hostage; and consented to leave the Western emperor in the undisturbed
possession of the three Mauritanias. This moderation, which cannot be imputed to the justice,
must be ascribed to the policy, of the conqueror. His throne was encompassed with domestic
enemies, who accused the baseness of his birth, and asserted the legitimate claims of his nephews,
the sons of Gonderic. Those nephews, indeed, he sacrificed to his safety; and their mother,
the widow of the deceased king, was precipitated, by his order, into the river Ampsaga. But
the public discontent burst forth in dangerous and frequent conspiracies; and the warlike tyrant
is supposed to have shed more Vandal blood by the hand of the executioner, than in the field
of battle. The convulsions of Africa, which had favored his attack, opposed the firm establishment
of his power; and the various seditions of the Moors and Germans, the Donatists and Catholics,
continually disturbed, or threatened, the unsettled reign of the conqueror. As he advanced
towards Carthage, he was forced to withdraw his troops from the Western provinces; the sea-coast
was exposed to the naval enterprises of the Romans of Spain and Italy; and, in the heart of
Numidia, the strong inland city of Corta still persisted in obstinate independence. These difficulties
were gradually subdued by the spirit, the perseverance, and the cruelty of Genseric; who alternately
applied the arts of peace and war to the establishment of his African kingdom. He subscribed
a solemn treaty, with the hope of deriving some advantage from the term of its continuance,
and the moment of its violation. The vigilance of his enemies was relaxed by the protestations
of friendship, which concealed his hostile approach; and Carthage was at length surprised by
the Vandals, five hundred and eighty-five years after the destruction of the city and republic
by the younger Scipio.

A new city had arisen from its ruins, with the title of a colony; and though Carthage might
yield to the royal prerogatives of Constantinople, and perhaps to the trade of Alexandria,
or the splendor of Antioch, she still maintained the second rank in the West; as the Rome (if
we may use the style of contemporaries) of the African world. That wealthy and opulent metropolis
displayed, in a dependent condition, the image of a flourishing republic. Carthage contained
the manufactures, the arms, and the treasures of the six provinces. A regular subordination
of civil honors gradually ascended from the procurators of the streets and quarters of the
city, to the tribunal of the supreme magistrate, who, with the title of proconsul, represented
the state and dignity of a consul of ancient Rome. Schools and gymnasia were instituted for
the education of the African youth; and the liberal arts and manners, grammar, rhetoric, and
philosophy, were publicly taught in the Greek and Latin languages. The buildings of Carthage
were uniform and magnificent; a shady grove was planted in the midst of the capital; the new
port, a secure and capacious harbor, was subservient to the commercial industry of citizens
and strangers; and the splendid games of the circus and theatre were exhibited almost in the
presence of the Barbarians. The reputation of the Carthaginians was not equal to that of their
country, and the reproach of Punic faith still adhered to their subtle and faithless character.
The habits of trade, and the abuse of luxury, had corrupted their manners; but their impious
contempt of monks, and the shameless practice of unnatural lusts, are the two abominations
which excite the pious vehemence of Salvian, the preacher of the age. The king of the Vandals
severely reformed the vices of a voluptuous people; and the ancient, noble, ingenuous freedom
of Carthage (these expressions of Victor are not without energy) was reduced by Genseric into
a state of ignominious servitude. After he had permitted his licentious troops to satiate their
rage and avarice, he instituted a more regular system of rapine and oppression. An edict was
promulgated, which enjoined all persons, without fraud or delay, to deliver their gold, silver,
jewels, and valuable furniture or apparel, to the royal officers; and the attempt to secrete
any part of their patrimony was inexorably punished with death and torture, as an act of treason
against the state. Forgive me if I curious to appear anything but a story belongs to accuracy. ""
My father, "continued the dandy sullenly away something that was"
clothing manufacturer wholesale - ""

How, "asked the Lord," what's clothing manufacturer ? Can Germany make clothes
in factories in?

"" Bring me the devil, as he had done, "said the dandy angry and struck the glass on the table."
This is not the way you can tell his biography, if If all moments
of critical studies interrupted, and my father had a house on the
old market, in which he had a studio and kept working, which made
clothes for the people!

"" Mon dieu! So call it, was he, what we tailleur, a tailor? "" Well, in God's name, call it
what you want, in short, he had seen the world, made a house, and if he is not the nobility and the Buerger
in his soirees saw, it was first but some good sound, a certain decorum, a certain, I do not know
what, briefly, it was a very decent man, my dad.

"I even recorded the Lachkitzel, when I garcon Sun perorieren tailleur
heard, but I took to the Markoe not to let fall from the role.

The Marquis leaned back but had wanted and heads off with laughter, the Englishmen looked inquiringly
at the dandy, suppressed a smile that would harm his could, and drank rum, the German Baron
continued: "They would tell me, gentlemen, in the upper world can press the thumb screws on, and
I would have my mask is not taken away from you.

Here it is quite another thing and whoever takes care of this poor place to the former Baron
of Garnmacher? Why hurt me and your laughter is not in the least, on the contrary, it's with
pleasure, to entertain you! "" Ah! ce noble trait, "said the Incroyable tears and wiped her
out of the eye." Give me your hand and let's be friends. What is it to me, if your father
was Duke or tailleur, tell more and more.

They make it too pretty. "" I enjoyed a good education, because my mother wanted me to make quite theologians,
and because this state is privileged scholar conditions of my country really in, so I was in
my seventh year, mensa, in my eighth amo, my tenth typto in Day Twelve Pakat drummed into me
in.

You can imagine that this immense erudition I did not had pleasant days in, I had what they called
a hard head, which means that I was dear to the field, heard the birds sing or the fish glide
down the river saw jumped rather with my mates, when I am up in the
attic, which one of the future pastor set up was seat of the Muses
on with my Broeder, Buttmann, Schroeder, and how terrible all the
hot, the boy with hard heads like evil spirits appear, abmarterte .

I had, moreover, still another slope which I took away a lot of time, it was the earlier of youth
growing up on me with affection for beautiful girls. Summer it was in my attic, so burning hot
like in the leads of the palace, St. Mark's in Venice, if I then small sliding window opens
that to his head a little fresh air to put it in, so eyes were involuntarily mean on the beautiful
garden of our neighbor, a rich merchant, and there among the beautiful acacia trees on the soft
mossy bank sat Amalie, his daughter and her playmates and confidants. Unwiderstehlide desire tore through
me, and I was going fast in my Sunday coat, coiffed hair with the fingers handle and was in flight
by the Zaunluecke the queen of my heart. For this batch, she held my heart in the fullest sense of the word.
I was in my eleventh year, the biggest part of my country Raeuberromane
Knight and read the "works of their excellence to other countries
has no idea, for the exalted name of Cramer and spit are never over
the Rhine or even reached the canal.

And yet, as these books are much higher than all those knights and Raeuberhistorien the author
of Waverley, who has no other merit than the expense of his readers rather wide to be on. Did the
great unknown, such as the excellent posts that I have the days of my childhood in the ear are
from: 'M itternac ht, G rausender dull N ature, R uedengebell, R itter U r iantrittau f.' Who
does not heart beats, who did not resist the hair up, if, on a desolate, abandoned attic at night is
reading this? How I did feel as the 'G rausender N ature,' and when the farm dog howled Ruedengebell
be, the camouflage was so perfect that my eyes were riveted to the locked door badly scared,
for I did not think differently, with 'R itter U riantreteauf! 'What was more natural than that
with so vivid imagination, my heart caught fire? Each Berta, the Knights sash umhing her, every
Ida, who went on to the balcony to the Schlossberg hinabdonnernden sweetheart again with the
veil of the zuzuwedeln, every Agnes, Hulda transformed so involuntarily in Amelia. But it was
this tribute of subject mortality. From their Sparbuechse namely the novels were purchased. If one
had read, I received it, read it well, then carried him back to the lending library, and there
always was looking out the books, which either had no more Standing or reading become so fat
from were they that I properly anglaenz te n . Those are the real to our taste, I thought, and
sure it was an 'R i R naldo inaldin i,' a 'D omschuet z', an 'old U eberallund any N' or else one
of our favorites. at home I tied him, then in an old Latin writings, for Amelia was very clean
and would have brought up, though the interior of the novel is not
very pure, always was, but never bare fingers touched the rich luster
of their favorites with.

Respectfully, I took him to the garden and handed over to him, and I never received it back, without
me the most beautiful places Amalie yarn over needle would have called a. Thus we read and loved,
our love was based on the model that we were reading, and soon she was tenderly and coyly, sometimes
fiery and stormy, so, jealousies occurred when, so we did our troubles, one object, Cause for
nameless bad luck to devise our one.

My usual ratio to the rich merchant's daughter by the way was that of a noble pages of obscure birth of
the courtyard of a large count or prince lives on, unhappy passion for the beautiful daughter of the house
and get one of her secret, but intimate in return receives last. And as their role to give Amalie knew
vividly, how kind, how condescending she was against me!

How she loved the beautiful, gallant squires, to which no obstacle was hard to get to her, the
wide moat (Entenpfuetze in our yard) forded those of the battlements of the wall (the fence) ascended
to in its Gartengemach ( the mossy bank under the acacias) not to steal. thousand daggers (the nails on the
fence, my trousers dangerous were very much), daggers lurking thousand to him, but love him
leads undamaged to the feet of his mistress. The only bad luck my love was that we really had
no bad luck. Although there were here and there border disputes between the poor knight (my father)
and the rich prince (the merchant) when our chickens in his garden
hinuebergeflogen was one namely and his hot-beds walk opened, or it
was even real feud, if Fuerst of a herald (his clerk) to us and sent
over the tribute urge to let (because my father is a very large account
in the account book of the prince had).

But all this bad luck was no necessary for our love and not served
to our situation to make more romantic. The only consequence to my
life and my love has grown out, my hard bad luck, the last of my class
to always be under and rector of the old hard to get blows, but also
taught about it and comforted me my mistress.

She disclosed to me namely, the Duke (the rector) Oldest Prince of love
wooed and they made me the young man turned away was love that he had certainly
love and the reason for his dismissal noticed our and the old father,
the headmaster, taught which should therefore make such an undignified
way to avenge on me.

     I had the best on their faith, but knew well, where the blows
     came, the old Duke knew I irregular Greek verbs, not the
     learned, and I received blows. So I was fourteen years old and my
lady made fifteen, unclouded was to last the sky our love was, there
occurred a sudden Ungluecksfaelle two of which already have been
sufficient for one would be to me from my heights herabzuschmettern.

It was the time when after the Treaty of Paris Fouque novels which began in my country to be fashion.
. "." What is that, Fouque's novels, "said the Lord. "These are light brown, religious stories, but by this
definition, you will not know more than before. M. Fouque is a pious knight who, it is no longer
the time is because, and lance to joust with sword, pen in with the barriers rides and is fighting
like a huge Waehringer. He has little crude and vulgar, but rather a modernized medieval today's fashion
world in some religious mysticism embalmed and pushed back five hundred years to. Because now everything
tastes very sweet and looks very graceful, lichtdunkel from the knights, of
whom nothing else did before, when she landed gentry were firm was
deriving from religion, and his manners so little made as the Grand
Turk from the sixth commandment, come here, a charming courtesy with
talking in his speeches are mainly religious and kreuzglaeubi g. The
ladies are modern Schwaermerinnen only chaste, pure, with stiff collar
and anyway done gallantly dressed up a bit, even the noble steeds
are. shinier than today and have tidy minds, like the wolf dogs and
other animals such "."

Mon dieu! Such nonsense one reads in Germany? " cried the Frenchman, and struck the hands together
in front of surprise. "Yes, gentlemen, we read and admired.

There was a time for us when we returned it, other nations to admire everything, as we focus
now on our own glories restricted, nothing found us, we were able to admire as the tempi passati -
so we threw ourselves with our zeal to habitual imitation and these were all old German.
Some people, however, had not imagination enough to be quite that glorious past's way into , we
did feel in general the need of manuals, which, like fashion magazines recently about manners
and customs of our ancestors taught us would have; there was pious knight on that, a second Orpheus,
he touched the strings, and there was a new generation and the girl, the French garrisons
were to become a bit frivolous when, men were discreet, chaste, pious
girl, the young moved from the fashionable dress coats, let his hair
and beard grow, the shirts are half a yard of canvas set in, and 'make
clothes people, "says a proverb, Probatum est; they were virtuous,
brave and pious."

Goddam! You are right, I have seen such figures, "interrupted the Englishmen," eight years ago I made
the big tour, and came also to Switzerland. I left on Lake Lucerne show me the place where the
Swiss have donated their republics. I met on the lawn a society that is modern, half out of the
dressing rooms seemed to have dressed centuries earlier, half eccentric. Five six young men
sat up and stood on the lawn and looked shiny eyes over the lake with. They had Caps on their heads,
almost like were regarded pancakes. Long flowing hair were wonderful in picturesque confusion
on back and shoulders, the neck were they freely and had broad, delicate embroidered collar,
now the ladies wear like herausgelegt. A skirt that one of today's masters, but the shape
was made of ancient, dressed apparently not amiss, he joined tightly
around the waist and showed everywhere the beautiful growth of the
young men.

In strange contrast that were wide trousers of coarse linen. From their Roecken saw dagger handles apparent
threat, and in her hand she wore Beilstoecke, approximately as the Roman lictors. Not at all right
but wanted this costume to fit, that, on the nose had sunglasses
and huge tobacco smoking.

I asked my guide, which for an odd fitting and uniform would be that, and whether they may be the Grütli
meadow think should be occupying one.

But he informed me that moving students from Germany . obtruded were
involuntary to me the idea of the knight-errant Don Quixote on to,
I climbed into my boat, laughing and praising my luck, to a place
that is the exalted memories he created that too easily leads to comparisons
with dreamy, a grotesque manifestation of the life to have been so.

The young Germans back from me but reconciled with, for when my boat glided over the lake, they
lifted a four-part singing in such a sublime melody that so worthy, poignant phrases that I have
them in mind the prejudice Abbate, what her costume was awakened in me. " "Well, there you have
it," said Baron Garnmacher continued the, "it was then under age and young in Germany, and I had novels
read Fouque, was a pious boy, carried me, as all my friends, old German and was my mistress, the
'rapture Maid', with a chaste, intimate love affection. At Amalie Z made by the way the 'auberrin
g', the 'F ah Gardens hiodolfs T' etc. not the desired impression, they laughed at the discreet,
light-brown , blue-eyed women, especially the B L erthavon ichtenrieth, and I praised Lafontaine
and Langbein, raunchy stories, which one of her girlfriends had slipped her. I was very honored
by the German character, which went up in me when I heard that given
her would have, but the flesh for fuel that novels went on burning
in the girls, which, because it age quite large was for, for a budding
virgin stopped, and short - there was a Joseph scene between us, I
wrapped myself in my old German Rock Fouque and my virtue, and fled
from the temptations of the sirens, like my hero Thiodolf before the
beautiful Zoe.

The consequence was that they despised me as an unworthy and Prince, the Rector's son, gave
her love that. Whether he and studied their Langbein Lafontaine, I know not to say, this much
is only known to me that it prince, Amelia's father, a few weeks
out of the garden has whipped his own hands afterwards.

I sat on my back now Dachkaemmerlein, had the Hebrew Bible and Greek irregularities before me lie
on them and my novels.

Many a night I cried hot tears there and the blinds in the garden by looking down, for the undisciplined
Virgin should not behold my sorrow, they should struggle between hatred and love is not on the
my face to read. I was convinced firmly that as unhappy as I be more, people can not, and a maximum
of the unfortunate O T rautwangen ttovon when he was in France with
his sensible, light-brown steed a cave inhabited, could perhaps have
been his sorrowful as I do.

But my suffering was not the full measure; hear how 'from entwoelkter height' me a second thunder struck. The
old rector had pupils a topic for an essay given its what we should answer the question, wenwirfuerdengroesste
M ann n D eutschlandshalte n. It should be proven value in history, reasons for and against
specified and anyway all agreed to be taught right. I had, as I've already noticed you, gentlemen,
always a hard head, and essays with my reasons were always contrary have been, I always had mediocre or bad
work that is delivered. But for this work, I was very excited, I did feel a great joy in me,
thoughts about great men of my country to say that my ideals and my (and who has in these not those belonging
years can put light in). Historically, the thing should be drawn up.

What was easier for me than this? Now I did feel the benefit of my eager reading. Where was
a man who had many stories read as if I? And Who, of any of the stories in these books took the hand
again, who could be in doubt who were the biggest men of my country? "Although I was not quite
with myself in the pure to whom I should recognize the crown. aspera S H pada? It is true he was a brave
man, the terror of his enemies, the love of his friends. But, as history says he was drinking
heavily result very much, and yet this was already a cinder in his fuertrefflichen character.
dolphder A uehne K, R D augrafvon Assel? He has a bit more of a big man, how dreadfully he chastised
the priest, if he is not only the history of Rome would have to walk in and do fine, but this weakens
but his majestic image.

It is true, O T rautwangen ttovon gleams as a star of the first size in German history, then I
thought, but even he seems not to have been the biggest yet, though his piety, which is brought
in to stop very, overcame all spells. Iceland probably belonged to the German Empire, indeed,
all of Germany's hero is among but none that the T hiodolf water as you can. Strong as Samson, harmless
as a dove, gentle as a lamb, in a rage erserke B r it can - not missing, he is the biggest German.
I sat down and wrote down that hierarchy full enthusiasm.

Probably ten times I jumped up, my chest was full, I could not say anything, the pen, the words
failed me, probably ten times, I read aloud to me before with the most successful agencies.
How sublime it was when I was the strength of the Icelandic language of how he a wolf tamed, as
in Constantinople, a horse only a little the forehead and tapped it spot dead was on, how generous
he spurned all reward, yes He: Hi imperial throne from one, to his love be faithful to, how childishly
pious he is, though he, the Christian religion does not quite know, how beautiful I described
all this, and yes, it was the heart of the old Rector stir the! I could thinking as he read my
work with increasing acclaim, as the morning class would come in to censor our essays. He certainly
sends a mild, friendly glance at the last place where he was only
like a roaring lion looking elsewhere, then he read my work aloud
and said, Can anything be more successful than read this?

And
guess who made it! The last will be the first. The stone which the builders rejected has the will, become
the cornerstone. Step forward, my son, Garnmachere! I've always said you were a Bete; guess I could, that you
are studying with so much zeal stories? Take out the price that you deserve. 'So he had to say he could
not do otherwise, without wrong to do the most glaring. Eagerly,
I wrote my essay now straighten. To show that I was ignorant not recent
stories in the well, I said at the conclusion that after the invention
of gunpowder the German lcibiade A s and H next to him ermannvon N orth
plate for the biggest men think. We can give you the R itter E u ros, who
afterwards as D omschuetzmitseinen G eSeller so great a stir was
made, which factor are concerned, the bravery, the page might make,
but those two are at a much higher position.

I brought triumphantly to the Rector essay and he almost had to laugh in his face when he said sullenly:
'He will have a nice smear, Garnmacher,' 'Read, and then - set up, I was proud of him and
left him to answer. If your country, my lord, a question of price would put over the worthiest English
theologians, and it would in a scholarly, phrases wohldurchspickten answer the benefit of the Vicar of
Wakefield demonstrated with who would laugh there not? If you, dear Marquis to the worthiest
lady in the days of Louis XIV asked to review could and praised the
new H eloise, would you not keep a madman for?

Listen to what folly I had committed! The Saturday on which we habitually censored our work, appeared
at last. So often these days had appeared elsewhere, it was me day of the accident was one.
Usually when I crept with palpitations to school, because I could be certain, blamed poor working
because, to be publicly vilified.

But how proud I went to today, I had best rock attracted my, beautiful, feingestickten collar created
the, my flowing hair was parted neatly and curly, I looked handsome and confessed to me that
I was in the Outer price not the unworthy, which given today should I advertise. The rector began
to censor the essays. How poor, obscure heroes of my schoolmates had chosen: Hermann, Charles
the Great, Emperor Henry, Luther, and the like - he went through a lot, always, he did not have to
work. Yes, it was obviously my hero, he had saved up to the final - as the best!
 Instead of contenting himself with a moderate contribution,
and a military title, which equalled him only to the generals of Theodosius, Attila would proceed
to impose a disgraceful and intolerable yoke on the necks of the prostrate and captive Romans,
who would then be encompassed, on all sides, by the empire of the Huns.

While the powers of Europe and Asia were solicitous to avert the impending danger, the alliance
of Attila maintained the Vandals in the possession of Africa. An enterprise had been concerted
between the courts of Ravenna and Constantinople, for the recovery of that valuable province;
and the ports of Sicily were already filled with the military and naval forces of Theodosius.
But the subtle Genseric, who spread his negotiations round the world, prevented their designs,
by exciting the king of the Huns to invade the Eastern empire; and a trifling incident soon
became the motive, or pretence, of a destructive war. Under the faith of the treaty of Margus,
a free market was held on the Northern side of the Danube, which was protected by a Roman fortress
surnamed Constantia. A troop of Barbarians violated the commercial security; killed, or dispersed,
the unsuspecting traders; and levelled the fortress with the ground. The Huns justified this
outrage as an act of reprisal; alleged, that the bishop of Margus had entered their territories,
to discover and steal a secret treasure of their kings; and sternly demanded the guilty prelate,
the sacrilegious spoil, and the fugitive subjects, who had escaped from the justice of Attila.
The refusal of the Byzantine court was the signal of war; and the Mæsians at first applauded
the generous firmness of their sovereign. But they were soon intimidated by the destruction
of Viminiacum and the adjacent towns; and the people was persuaded to adopt the convenient
maxim, that a private citizen, however innocent or respectable, may be justly sacrificed to
the safety of his country. The bishop of Margus, who did not possess the spirit of a martyr,
resolved to prevent the designs which he suspected. He boldly treated with the princes of the
Huns: secured, by solemn oaths, his pardon and reward; posted a numerous detachment of Barbarians,
in silent ambush, on the banks of the Danube; and, at the appointed hour, opened, with his
own hand, the gates of his episcopal city. This advantage, which had been obtained by treachery,
served as a prelude to more honorable and decisive victories. The Illyrian frontier was covered
by a line of castles and fortresses; and though the greatest part of them consisted only of
a single tower, with a small garrison, they were commonly sufficient to repel, or to intercept,
the inroads of an enemy, who was ignorant of the art, and impatient of the delay, of a regular
siege. But these slight obstacles were instantly swept away by the inundation of the Huns.
They destroyed, with fire and sword, the populous cities of Sirmium and Singidunum, of Ratiaria
and Marcianopolis, of Naissus and Sardica; where every circumstance of the discipline of the
people, and the construction of the buildings, had been gradually adapted to the sole purpose
of defence. The public danger and distress could not, however, provoke Theodosius to interrupt
his amusements and devotion, or to appear in person at the head of the Roman legions. But the
troops, which had been sent against Genseric, were hastily recalled from Sicily; the garrisons,
on the side of Persia, were exhausted; and a military force was collected in Europe, formidable
by their arms and numbers, if the generals had understood the science of command, and the soldiers
the duty of obedience. The armies of the Eastern empire were vanquished in three successive
engagements; and the progress of Attila may be traced by the fields of battle. The two former,
on the banks of the Utus, and under the walls of Marcianopolis, were fought in the extensive
plains between the Danube and Mount Hæmus. As the Romans were pressed by a victorious enemy,
they gradually, and unskilfully, retired towards the Chersonesus of Thrace; and that narrow
peninsula, the last extremity of the land, was marked by their third, and irreparable, defeat.
By the destruction of this army, Attila acquired the indisputable possession of the field.
From the Hellespont to Thermopylæ, and the suburbs of Constantinople, he ravaged, without resistance,
and without mercy, the provinces of Thrace and Macedonia. Heraclea and Hadrianople might, perhaps,
escape this dreadful irruption of the Huns; but the words, the most expressive of total extirpation
and erasure, are applied to the calamities which they inflicted on seventy cities of the Eastern
empire. Theodosius, his court, and the unwarlike people, were protected by the walls of Constantinople;
but those walls had been shaken by a recent earthquake, and the fall of fifty-eight towers
had opened a large and tremendous breach. The damage indeed was speedily repaired; but this
accident was aggravated by a superstitious fear, that Heaven itself had delivered the Imperial
city to the shepherds of Scythia, who were strangers to the laws, the language, and the religion,
of the Romans.

In all their invasions of the civilized empires of the South, the Scythian shepherds have been
uniformly actuated by a savage and destructive spirit. The laws of war, that restrain the exercise
of national rapine and murder, are founded on two principles of substantial interest: the knowledge
of the permanent benefits which may be obtained by a moderate use of conquest; and a just apprehension,
lest the desolation which we inflict on the enemy's country may be retaliated on our own. But
these considerations of hope and fear are almost unknown in the pastoral state of nations.
The Huns of Attila may, without injustice, be compared to the Moguls and Tartars, before their
primitive manners were changed by religion and luxury; and the evidence of Oriental history
may reflect some light on the short and imperfect annals of Rome. After the Moguls had subdued
the northern provinces of China, it was seriously proposed, not in the hour of victory and
passion, but in calm deliberate council, to exterminate all the inhabitants of that populous
country, that the vacant land might be converted to the pasture of cattle. The firmness of
a Chinese mandarin, who insinuated some principles of rational policy into the mind of Zingis,
diverted him from the execution of this horrid design. But in the cities of Asia, which yielded
to the Moguls, the inhuman abuse of the rights of war was exercised with a regular form of
discipline, which may, with equal reason, though not with equal authority, be imputed to the
victorious Huns. The inhabitants, who had submitted to their discretion, were ordered to evacuate
their houses, and to assemble in some plain adjacent to the city; where a division was made
of the vanquished into three parts. The first class consisted of the soldiers of the garrison,
and of the young men capable of bearing arms; and their fate was instantly decided they were
either enlisted among the Moguls, or they were massacred on the spot by the troops, who, with
pointed spears and bended bows, had formed a circle round the captive multitude. The second
class, composed of the young and beautiful women, of the artificers of every rank and profession,
and of the more wealthy or honorable citizens, from whom a private ransom might be expected,
was distributed in equal or proportionable lots. The remainder, whose life or death was alike
useless to the conquerors, were permitted to return to the city; which, in the mean while,
had been stripped of its valuable furniture; and a tax was imposed on those wretched inhabitants
for the indulgence of breathing their native air. Such was the behavior of the Moguls, when
they were not conscious of any extraordinary rigor. But the most casual provocation, the slightest
motive of caprice or convenience, often provoked them to involve a whole people in an indiscriminate
massacre; and the ruin of some flourishing cities was executed with such unrelenting perseverance,
that, according to their own expression, horses might run, without stumbling, over the ground
where they had once stood. The three great capitals of Khorasan, Maru, Neisabour, and Herat,
were destroyed by the armies of Zingis; and the exact account which was taken of the slain
amounted to four millions three hundred and forty-seven thousand persons. Timur, or Tamerlane,
was educated in a less barbarous age, and in the profession of the Mahometan religion; yet,
if Attila equalled the hostile ravages of Tamerlane, either the Tartar or the Hun might deserve
the epithet of the Scourge of God.

Chapter XXXIV: Attila.--Part II.

It may be affirmed, with bolder assurance, that the Huns depopulated the provinces of the empire,
by the number of Roman subjects whom they led away into captivity. In the hands of a wise legislator,
such an industrious colony might have contributed to diffuse through the deserts of Scythia
the rudiments of the useful and ornamental arts; but these captives, who had been taken in
war, were accidentally dispersed among the hordes that obeyed the empire of Attila. The estimate
of their respective value was formed by the simple judgment of unenlightened and unprejudiced
Barbarians. Perhaps they might not understand the merit of a theologian, profoundly skilled
in the controversies of the Trinity and the Incarnation; yet they respected the ministers of
every religion and the active zeal of the Christian missionaries, without approaching the person
or the palace of the monarch, successfully labored in the propagation of the gospel. The pastoral
tribes, who were ignorant of the distinction of landed property, must have disregarded the
use, as well as the abuse, of civil jurisprudence; and the skill of an eloquent lawyer could
excite only their contempt or their abhorrence. The perpetual intercourse of the Huns and the
Goths had communicated the familiar knowledge of the two national dialects; and the Barbarians
were ambitious of conversing in Latin, the military idiom even of the Eastern empire. But they
disdained the language and the sciences of the Greeks; and the vain sophist, or grave philosopher,
who had enjoyed the flattering applause of the schools, was mortified to find that his robust
servant was a captive of more value and importance than himself. The mechanic arts were encouraged
and esteemed, as they tended to satisfy the wants of the Huns. An architect in the service
of Onegesius, one of the favorites of Attila, was employed to construct a bath; but this work
was a rare example of private luxury; and the trades of the smith, the carpenter, the armorer,
were much more adapted to supply a wandering people with the useful instruments of peace and
war. But the merit of the physician was received with universal favor and respect: the Barbarians,
who despised death, might be apprehensive of disease; and the haughty conqueror trembled in
the presence of a captive, to whom he ascribed, perhaps, an imaginary power of prolonging or
preserving his life. The Huns might be provoked to insult the misery of their slaves, over
whom they exercised a despotic command; but their manners were not susceptible of a refined
system of oppression; and the efforts of courage and diligence were often recompensed by the
gift of freedom. The historian Priscus, whose embassy is a source of curious instruction, was
accosted in the camp of Attila by a stranger, who saluted him in the Greek language, but whose
dress and figure displayed the appearance of a wealthy Scythian. In the siege of Viminiacum,
he had lost, according to his own account, his fortune and liberty; he became the slave of
Onegesius; but his faithful services, against the Romans and the Acatzires, had gradually raised
him to the rank of the native Huns; to whom he was attached by the domestic pledges of a new
wife and several children. The spoils of war had restored and improved his private property;
he was admitted to the table of his former lord; and the apostate Greek blessed the hour of
his captivity, since it had been the introduction to a happy and independent state; which he
held by the honorable tenure of military service. This reflection naturally produced a dispute
on the advantages and defects of the Roman government, which was severely arraigned by the
apostate, and defended by Priscus in a prolix and feeble declamation. The freedman of Onegesius
exposed, in true and lively colors, the vices of a declining empire, of which he had so long
been the victim; the cruel absurdity of the Roman princes, unable to protect their subjects
against the public enemy, unwilling to trust them with arms for their own defence; the intolerable
weight of taxes, rendered still more oppressive by the intricate or arbitrary modes of collection;
the obscurity of numerous and contradictory laws; the tedious and expensive forms of judicial
proceedings; the partial administration of justice; and the universal corruption, which increased
the influence of the rich, and aggravated the misfortunes of the poor. A sentiment of patriotic
sympathy was at length revived in the breast of the fortunate exile; and he lamented, with
a flood of tears, the guilt or weakness of those magistrates who had perverted the wisest and
most salutary institutions.

The timid or selfish policy of the Western Romans had abandoned the Eastern empire to the Huns.
The loss of armies, and the want of discipline or virtue, were not supplied by the personal
character of the monarch. Theodosius might still affect the style, as well as the title, of
Invincible Augustus; but he was reduced to solicit the clemency of Attila, who imperiously
dictated these harsh and humiliating conditions of peace. I. The emperor of the East resigned,
by an express or tacit convention, an extensive and important territory, which stretched along
the southern banks of the Danube, from Singidunum, or Belgrade, as far as Novæ, in the diocese
of Thrace. The breadth was defined by the vague computation of fifteen days' journey; but,
from the proposal of Attila to remove the situation of the national market, it soon appeared,
that he comprehended the ruined city of Naissus within the limits of his dominions. II. The
king of the Huns required and obtained, that his tribute or subsidy should be augmented from
seven hundred pounds of gold to the annual sum of two thousand one hundred; and he stipulated
the immediate payment of six thousand pounds of gold, to defray the expenses, or to expiate
the guilt, of the war. One might imagine, that such a demand, which scarcely equalled the measure
of private wealth, would have been readily discharged by the opulent empire of the East; and
the public distress affords a remarkable proof of the impoverished, or at least of the disorderly,
state of the finances. A large proportion of the taxes extorted from the people was detained
and intercepted in their passage, though the foulest channels, to the treasury of Constantinople.
The revenue was dissipated by Theodosius and his favorites in wasteful and profuse luxury;
which was disguised by the names of Imperial magnificence, or Christian charity. The immediate
supplies had been exhausted by the unforeseen necessity of military preparations. A personal
contribution, rigorously, but capriciously, imposed on the members of the senatorian order,
was the only expedient that could disarm, without loss of time, the impatient avarice of Attila;
and the poverty of the nobles compelled them to adopt the scandalous resource of exposing to
public auction the jewels of their wives, and the hereditary ornaments of their palaces. III.
The king of the Huns appears to have established, as a principle of national jurisprudence,
that he could never lose the property, which he had once acquired, in the persons who had yielded
either a voluntary, or reluctant, submission to his authority. From this principle he concluded,
and the conclusions of Attila were irrevocable laws, that the Huns, who had been taken prisoner
in war, should be released without delay, and without ransom; that every Roman captive, who
had presumed to escape, should purchase his right to freedom at the price of twelve pieces
of gold; and that all the Barbarians, who had deserted the standard of Attila, should be restored,
without any promise or stipulation of pardon. In the execution of this cruel and ignominious
treaty, the Imperial officers were forced to massacre several loyal and noble deserters, who
refused to devote themselves to certain death; and the Romans forfeited all reasonable claims
to the friendship of any Scythian people, by this public confession, that they were destitute
either of faith, or power, to protect the suppliant, who had embraced the throne of Theodosius.

The firmness of a single town, so obscure, that, except on this occasion, it has never been
mentioned by any historian or geographer, exposed the disgrace of the emperor and empire. Azimus,
or Azimuntium, a small city of Thrace on the Illyrian borders, had been distinguished by the
martial spirit of its youth, the skill and reputation of the leaders whom they had chosen,
and their daring exploits against the innumerable host of the Barbarians. Instead of tamely
expecting their approach, the Azimuntines attacked, in frequent and successful sallies, the
troops of the Huns, who gradually declined the dangerous neighborhood, rescued from their hands
the spoil and the captives, and recruited their domestic force by the voluntary association
of fugitives and deserters. After the conclusion of the treaty, Attila still menaced the empire
with implacable war, unless the Azimuntines were persuaded, or compelled, to comply with the
conditions which their sovereign had accepted. The ministers of Theodosius confessed with shame,
and with truth, that they no longer possessed any authority over a society of men, who so bravely
asserted their natural independence; and the king of the Huns condescended to negotiate an
equal exchange with the citizens of Azimus. They demanded the restitution of some shepherds,
who, with their cattle, had been accidentally surprised. A strict, though fruitless, inquiry
was allowed: but the Huns were obliged to swear, that they did not detain any prisoners belonging
to the city, before they could recover two surviving countrymen, whom the Azimuntines had reserved
as pledges for the safety of their lost companions. Attila, on his side, was satisfied, and
deceived, by their solemn asseveration, that the rest of the captives had been put to the sword;
and that it was their constant practice, immediately to dismiss the Romans and the deserters,
who had obtained the security of the public faith. This prudent and officious dissimulation
may be condemned, or excused, by the casuists, as they incline to the rigid decree of St. Augustin,
or to the milder sentiment of St. Jerom and St. Chrysostom: but every soldier, every statesman,
must acknowledge, that, if the race of the Azimuntines had been encouraged and multiplied,
the Barbarians would have ceased to trample on the majesty of the empire.

It would have been strange, indeed, if Theodosius had purchased, by the loss of honor, a secure
and solid tranquillity, or if his tameness had not invited the repetition of injuries. The
Byzantine court was insulted by five or six successive embassies; and the ministers of Attila
were uniformly instructed to press the tardy or imperfect execution of the last treaty; to
produce the names of fugitives and deserters, who were still protected by the empire; and to
declare, with seeming moderation, that, unless their sovereign obtained complete and immediate
satisfaction, it would be impossible for him, were it even his wish, to check the resentment
of his warlike tribes. Besides the motives of pride and interest, which might prompt the king
of the Huns to continue this train of negotiation, he was influenced by the less honorable
view of enriching his favorites at the expense of his enemies. The Imperial treasury was exhausted,
to procure the friendly offices of the ambassadors and their principal attendants, whose favorable
report might conduce to the maintenance of peace. The Barbarian monarch was flattered by the
liberal reception of his ministers; he computed, with pleasure, the value and splendor of their
gifts, rigorously exacted the performance of every promise which would contribute to their
private emolument, and treated as an important business of state the marriage of his secretary
Constantius. That Gallic adventurer, who was recommended by Ætius to the king of the Huns,
had engaged his service to the ministers of Constantinople, for the stipulated reward of a
wealthy and noble wife; and the daughter of Count Saturninus was chosen to discharge the obligations
of her country. The reluctance of the victim, some domestic troubles, and the unjust confiscation
of her fortune, cooled the ardor of her interested lover; but he still demanded, in the name
of Attila, an equivalent alliance; and, after many ambiguous delays and excuses, the Byzantine
court was compelled to sacrifice to this insolent stranger the widow of Armatius, whose birth,
opulence, and beauty, placed her in the most illustrious rank of the Roman matrons. For these
importunate and oppressive embassies, Attila claimed a suitable return: he weighed, with suspicious
pride, the character and station of the Imperial envoys; but he condescended to promise that
he would advance as far as Sardica to receive any ministers who had been invested with the
consular dignity. The council of Theodosius eluded this proposal, by representing the desolate
and ruined condition of Sardica, and even ventured to insinuate that every officer of the army
or household was qualified to treat with the most powerful princes of Scythia. Maximin, a respectable
courtier, whose abilities had been long exercised in civil and military employments, accepted,
with reluctance, the troublesome, and perhaps dangerous, commission of reconciling the angry
spirit of the king of the Huns. His friend, the historian Priscus, embraced the opportunity
of observing the Barbarian hero in the peaceful and domestic scenes of life: but the secret
of the embassy, a fatal and guilty secret, was intrusted only to the interpreter Vigilius.
The two last ambassadors of the Huns, Orestes, a noble subject of the Pannonian province, and
Edecon, a valiant chieftain of the tribe of the Scyrri, returned at the same time from Constantinople
to the royal camp. Their obscure names were afterwards illustrated by the extraordinary fortune
and the contrast of their sons: the two servants of Attila became the fathers of the last Roman
emperor of the West, and of the first Barbarian king of Italy.

The ambassadors, who were followed by a numerous train of men and horses, made their first
halt at Sardica, at the distance of three hundred and fifty miles, or thirteen days' journey,
from Constantinople. As the remains of Sardica were still included within the limits of the
empire, it was incumbent on the Romans to exercise the duties of hospitality. They provided,
with the assistance of the provincials, a sufficient number of sheep and oxen, and invited
the Huns to a splendid, or at least, a plentiful supper. But the harmony of the entertainment
was soon disturbed by mutual prejudice and indiscretion. The greatness of the emperor and the
empire was warmly maintained by their ministers; the Huns, with equal ardor, asserted the superiority
of their victorious monarch: the dispute was inflamed by the rash and unseasonable flattery
of Vigilius, who passionately rejected the comparison of a mere mortal with the divine Theodosius;
and it was with extreme difficulty that Maximin and Priscus were able to divert the conversation,
or to soothe the angry minds, of the Barbarians. When they rose from table, the Imperial ambassador
presented Edecon and Orestes with rich gifts of silk robes and Indian pearls, which they thankfully
accepted. Yet Orestes could not forbear insinuating that he had not always been treated with
such respect and liberality: and the offensive distinction which was implied, between his civil
office and the hereditary rank of his colleague seems to have made Edecon a doubtful friend,
and Orestes an irreconcilable enemy. After this entertainment, they travelled about one hundred
miles from Sardica to Naissus. That flourishing city, which has given birth to the great Constantine,
was levelled with the ground: the inhabitants were destroyed or dispersed; and the appearance
of some sick persons, who were still permitted to exist among the ruins of the churches, served
only to increase the horror of the prospect. The surface of the country was covered with the
bones of the slain; and the ambassadors, who directed their course to the north-west, were
obliged to pass the hills of modern Servia, before they descended into the flat and marshy
grounds which are terminated by the Danube. The Huns were masters of the great river: their
navigation was performed in large canoes, hollowed out of the trunk of a single tree; the ministers
of Theodosius were safely landed on the opposite bank; and their Barbarian associates immediately
hastened to the camp of Attila, which was equally prepared for the amusements of hunting or
of war. No sooner had Maximin advanced about two miles from the Danube, than he began to experience
the fastidious insolence of the conqueror. He was sternly forbid to pitch his tents in a pleasant
valley, lest he should infringe the distant awe that was due to the royal mansion. The ministers
of Attila pressed them to communicate the business, and the instructions, which he reserved
for the ear of their sovereign When Maximin temperately urged the contrary practice of nations,
he was still more confounded to find that the resolutions of the Sacred Consistory, those secrets
(says Priscus) which should not be revealed to the gods themselves, had been treacherously
disclosed to the public enemy. On his refusal to comply with such ignominious terms, the Imperial
envoy was commanded instantly to depart; the order was recalled; it was again repeated; and
the Huns renewed their ineffectual attempts to subdue the patient firmness of Maximin. At length,
by the intercession of Scotta, the brother of Onegesius, whose friendship had been purchased
by a liberal gift, he was admitted to the royal presence; but, in stead of obtaining a decisive
answer, he was compelled to undertake a remote journey towards the north, that Attila might
enjoy the proud satisfaction of receiving, in the same camp, the ambassadors of the Eastern
and Western empires. His journey was regulated by the guides, who obliged him to halt, to hasten
his march, or to deviate from the common road, as it best suited the convenience of the king.
The Romans, who traversed the plains of Hungary, suppose that they passed several navigable
rivers, either in canoes or portable boats; but there is reason to suspect that the winding
stream of the Teyss, or Tibiscus, might present itself in different places under different
names. From the contiguous villages they received a plentiful and regular supply of provisions;
mead instead of wine, millet in the place of bread, and a certain liquor named camus, which
according to the report of Priscus, was distilled from barley. Such fare might appear coarse
and indelicate to men who had tasted the luxury of Constantinople; but, in their accidental
distress, they were relieved by the gentleness and hospitality of the same Barbarians, so terrible
and so merciless in war. The ambassadors had encamped on the edge of a large morass. A violent
tempest of wind and rain, of thunder and lightning, overturned their tents, immersed their
baggage and furniture in the water, and scattered their retinue, who wandered in the darkness
of the night, uncertain of their road, and apprehensive of some unknown danger, till they awakened
by their cries the inhabitants of a neighboring village, the property of the widow of Bleda.
A bright illumination, and, in a few moments, a comfortable fire of reeds, was kindled by their
officious benevolence; the wants, and even the desires, of the Romans were liberally satisfied;
and they seem to have been embarrassed by the singular politeness of Bleda's widow, who added
to her other favors the gift, or at least the loan, of a sufficient number of beautiful and
obsequious damsels. The sunshine of the succeeding day was dedicated to repose, to collect
and dry the baggage, and to the refreshment of the men and horses: but, in the evening, before
they pursued their journey, the ambassadors expressed their gratitude to the bounteous lady
of the village, by a very acceptable present of silver cups, red fleeces, dried fruits, and
Indian pepper. Soon after this adventure, they rejoined the march of Attila, from whom they
had been separated about six days, and slowly proceeded to the capital of an empire, which
did not contain, in the space of several thousand miles, a single city.

As far as we may ascertain the vague and obscure geography of Priscus, this capital appears
to have been seated between the Danube, the Teyss, and the Carpathian hills, in the plains
of Upper Hungary, and most probably in the neighborhood of Jezberin, Agria, or Tokay. In its
origin it could be no more than an accidental camp, which, by the long and frequent residence
of Attila, had insensibly swelled into a huge village, for the reception of his court, of the
troops who followed his person, and of the various multitude of idle or industrious slaves
and retainers. The baths, constructed by Onegesius, were the only edifice of stone; the materials
had been transported from Pannonia; and since the adjacent country was destitute even of large
timber, it may be presumed, that the meaner habitations of the royal village consisted of straw,
or mud, or of canvass. The wooden houses of the more illustrious Huns were built and adorned
with rude magnificence, according to the rank, the fortune, or the taste of the proprietors.
They seem to have been distributed with some degree of order and symmetry; and each spot became
more honorable as it approached the person of the sovereign. The palace of Attila, which surpassed
all other houses in his dominions, was built entirely of wood, and covered an ample space of
ground. The outward enclosure was a lofty wall, or palisade, of smooth square timber, intersected
with high towers, but intended rather for ornament than defence. This wall, which seems to
have encircled the declivity of a hill, comprehended a great variety of wooden edifices, adapted
to the uses of royalty. A separate house was assigned to each of the numerous wives of Attila;
and, instead of the rigid and illiberal confinement imposed by Asiatic jealousy they politely
admitted the Roman ambassadors to their presence, their table, and even to the freedom of an
innocent embrace. When Maximin offered his presents to Cerca, the principal queen, he admired
the singular architecture on her mansion, the height of the round columns, the size and beauty
of the wood, which was curiously shaped or turned or polished or carved; and his attentive
eye was able to discover some taste in the ornaments and some regularity in the proportions.
After passing through the guards, who watched before the gate, the ambassadors were introduced
into the private apartment of Cerca. The wife of Attila received their visit sitting, or rather
lying, on a soft couch; the floor was covered with a carpet; the domestics formed a circle
round the queen; and her damsels, seated on the ground, were employed in working the variegated
embroidery which adorned the dress of the Barbaric warriors. The Huns were ambitious of displaying
those riches which were the fruit and evidence of their victories: the trappings of their horses,
their swords, and even their shoes, were studded with gold and precious stones; and their tables
were profusely spread with plates, and goblets, and vases of gold and silver, which had been
fashioned by the labor of Grecian artists. The monarch alone assumed the superior pride of
still adhering to the simplicity of his Scythian ancestors. The dress of Attila, his arms,
and the furniture of his horse, were plain, without ornament, and of a single color. The royal
table was served in wooden cups and platters; flesh was his only food; and the conqueror of
the North never tasted the luxury of bread.

When Attila first gave audience to the Roman ambassadors on the banks of the Danube, his tent
was encompassed with a formidable guard. The monarch himself was seated in a wooden chair.
His stern countenance, angry gestures, and impatient tone, astonished the firmness of Maximin;
but Vigilius had more reason to tremble, since he distinctly understood the menace, that if
Attila did not respect the law of nations, he would nail the deceitful interpreter to the cross,
and leave his body to the vultures. The Barbarian condescended, by producing an accurate list,
to expose the bold falsehood of Vigilius, who had affirmed that no more than seventeen deserters
could be found. But he arrogantly declared, that he apprehended only the disgrace of contending
with his fugitive slaves; since he despised their impotent efforts to defend the provinces
which Theodosius had intrusted to their arms: "For what fortress," (added Attila,) "what city,
in the wide extent of the Roman empire, can hope to exist, secure and impregnable, if it is
our pleasure that it should be erased from the earth?" He dismissed, however, the interpreter,
who returned to Constantinople with his peremptory demand of more complete restitution, and
a more splendid embassy. His anger gradually subsided, and his domestic satisfaction in a marriage
which he celebrated on the road with the daughter of Eslam, might perhaps contribute to mollify
the native fierceness of his temper. The entrance of Attila into the royal village was marked
by a very singular ceremony. A numerous troop of women came out to meet their hero and their
king. They marched before him, distributed into long and regular files; the intervals between
the files were filled by white veils of thin linen, which the women on either side bore aloft
in their hands, and which formed a canopy for a chorus of young virgins, who chanted hymns
and songs in the Scythian language. The wife of his favorite Onegesius, with a train of female
attendants, saluted Attila at the door of her own house, on his way to the palace; and offered,
according to the custom of the country, her respectful homage, by entreating him to taste the
wine and meat which she had prepared for his reception. As soon as the monarch had graciously
accepted her hospitable gift, his domestics lifted a small silver table to a convenient height,
as he sat on horseback; and Attila, when he had touched the goblet with his lips, again saluted
the wife of Onegesius, and continued his march. During his residence at the seat of empire,
his hours were not wasted in the recluse idleness of a seraglio; and the king of the Huns could
maintain his superior dignity, without concealing his person from the public view. He frequently
assembled his council, and gave audience to the ambassadors of the nations; and his people
might appeal to the supreme tribunal, which he held at stated times, and, according to the
Eastern custom, before the principal gate of his wooden palace. The Romans, both of the East
and of the West, were twice invited to the banquets, where Attila feasted with the princes
and nobles of Scythia. Maximin and his colleagues were stopped on the threshold, till they
had made a devout libation to the health and prosperity of the king of the Huns; and were conducted,
after this ceremony, to their respective seats in a spacious hall. The royal table and couch,
covered with carpets and fine linen, was raised by several steps in the midst of the hall;
and a son, an uncle, or perhaps a favorite king, were admitted to share the simple and homely
repast of Attila. Two lines of small tables, each of which contained three or four guests,
were ranged in order on either hand; the right was esteemed the most honorable, but the Romans
ingenuously confess, that they were placed on the left; and that Beric, an unknown chieftain,
most probably of the Gothic race, preceded the representatives of Theodosius and Valentinian.
The Barbarian monarch received from his cup-bearer a goblet filled with wine, and courteously
drank to the health of the most distinguished guest; who rose from his seat, and expressed,
in the same manner, his loyal and respectful vows. This ceremony was successively performed
for all, or at least for the illustrious persons of the assembly; and a considerable time must
have been consumed, since it was thrice repeated as each course or service was placed on the
table. But the wine still remained after the meat had been removed; and the Huns continued
to indulge their intemperance long after the sober and decent ambassadors of the two empires
had withdrawn themselves from the nocturnal banquet. Yet before they retired, they enjoyed
a singular opportunity of observing the manners of the nation in their convivial amusements.
Two Scythians stood before the couch of Attila, and recited the verses which they had composed,
to celebrate his valor and his victories. A profound silence prevailed in the hall; and the
attention of the guests was captivated by the vocal harmony, which revived and perpetuated
the memory of their own exploits; a martial ardor flashed from the eyes of the warriors, who
were impatient for battle; and the tears of the old men expressed their generous despair, that
they could no longer partake the danger and glory of the field. This entertainment, which might
be considered as a school of military virtue, was succeeded by a farce, that debased the dignity
of human nature. A Moorish and a Scythian buffoon successively excited the mirth of the rude
spectators, by their deformed figure, ridiculous dress, antic gestures, absurd speeches, and
the strange, unintelligible confusion of the Latin, the Gothic, and the Hunnic languages; and
the hall resounded with loud and licentious peals of laughter. In the midst of this intemperate
riot, Attila alone, without a change of countenance, maintained his steadfast and inflexible
gravity; which was never relaxed, except on the entrance of Irnac, the youngest of his sons:
he embraced the boy with a smile of paternal tenderness, gently pinched him by the cheek, and
betrayed a partial affection, which was justified by the assurance of his prophets, that Irnac
would be the future support of his family and empire. Two days afterwards, the ambassadors
received a second invitation; and they had reason to praise the politeness, as well as the
hospitality, of Attila. The king of the Huns held a long and familiar conversation with Maximin;
but his civility was interrupted by rude expressions and haughty reproaches; and he was provoked,
by a motive of interest, to support, with unbecoming zeal, the private claims of his secretary
Constantius. "The emperor" (said Attila) "has long promised him a rich wife: Constantius must
not be disappointed; nor should a Roman emperor deserve the name of liar." On the third day,
the ambassadors were dismissed; the freedom of several captives was granted, for a moderate
ransom, to their pressing entreaties; and, besides the royal presents, they were permitted
to accept from each of the Scythian nobles the honorable and useful gift of a horse. Maximin
returned, by the same road, to Constantinople; and though he was involved in an accidental
dispute with Beric, the new ambassador of Attila, he flattered himself that he had contributed,
by the laborious journey, to confirm the peace and alliance of the two nations.

Chapter XXXIV: Attila.--Part III.

But the Roman ambassador was ignorant of the treacherous design, which had been concealed under
the mask of the public faith. The surprise and satisfaction of Edecon, when he contemplated
the splendor of Constantinople, had encouraged the interpreter Vigilius to procure for him
a secret interview with the eunuch Chrysaphius, who governed the emperor and the empire. After
some previous conversation, and a mutual oath of secrecy, the eunuch, who had not, from his
own feelings or experience, imbibed any exalted notions of ministerial virtue, ventured to
propose the death of Attila, as an important service, by which Edecon might deserve a liberal
share of the wealth and luxury which he admired. The ambassador of the Huns listened to the
tempting offer; and professed, with apparent zeal, his ability, as well as readiness, to execute
the bloody deed; the design was communicated to the master of the offices, and the devout Theodosius
consented to the assassination of his invincible enemy. But this perfidious conspiracy was
defeated by the dissimulation, or the repentance, of Edecon; and though he might exaggerate
his inward abhorrence for the treason, which he seemed to approve, he dexterously assumed the
merit of an early and voluntary confession. If we now review the embassy of Maximin, and the
behavior of Attila, we must applaud the Barbarian, who respected the laws of hospitality, and
generously entertained and dismissed the minister of a prince who had conspired against his
life. But the rashness of Vigilius will appear still more extraordinary, since he returned,
conscious of his guilt and danger, to the royal camp, accompanied by his son, and carrying
with him a weighty purse of gold, which the favorite eunuch had furnished, to satisfy the demands
of Edecon, and to corrupt the fidelity of the guards. The interpreter was instantly seized,
and dragged before the tribunal of Attila, where he asserted his innocence with specious firmness,
till the threat of inflicting instant death on his son extorted from him a sincere discovery
of the criminal transaction. Under the name of ransom, or confiscation, the rapacious king
of the Huns accepted two hundred pounds of gold for the life of a traitor, whom he disdained
to punish. He pointed his just indignation against a nobler object. His ambassadors, Eslaw
and Orestes, were immediately despatched to Constantinople, with a peremptory instruction,
which it was much safer for them to execute than to disobey. They boldly entered the Imperial
presence, with the fatal purse hanging down from the neck of Orestes; who interrogated the
eunuch Chrysaphius, as he stood beside the throne, whether he recognized the evidence of his
guilt. But the office of reproof was reserved for the superior dignity of his colleague Eslaw,
who gravely addressed the emperor of the East in the following words: "Theodosius is the son
of an illustrious and respectable parent: Attila likewise is descended from a noble race; and
he has supported, by his actions, the dignity which he inherited from his father Mundzuk. But
Theodosius has forfeited his paternal honors, and, by consenting to pay tribute has degraded
himself to the condition of a slave. It is therefore just, that he should reverence the man
whom fortune and merit have placed above him; instead of attempting, like a wicked slave, clandestinely
to conspire against his master." The son of Arcadius, who was accustomed only to the voice
of flattery, heard with astonishment the severe language of truth: he blushed and trembled;
nor did he presume directly to refuse the head of Chrysaphius, which Eslaw and Orestes were
instructed to demand. A solemn embassy, armed with full powers and magnificent gifts, was hastily
sent to deprecate the wrath of Attila; and his pride was gratified by the choice of Nomius
and Anatolius, two ministers of consular or patrician rank, of whom the one was great treasurer,
and the other was master-general of the armies of the East. He condescended to meet these ambassadors
on the banks of the River Drenco; and though he at first affected a stern and haughty demeanor,
his anger was insensibly mollified by their eloquence and liberality. He condescended to pardon
the emperor, the eunuch, and the interpreter; bound himself by an oath to observe the conditions
of peace; released a great number of captives; abandoned the fugitives and deserters to their
fate; and resigned a large territory, to the south of the Danube, which he had already exhausted
of its wealth and inhabitants. But this treaty was purchased at an expense which might have
supported a vigorous and successful war; and the subjects of Theodosius were compelled to redeem
the safety of a worthless favorite by oppressive taxes, which they would more cheerfully have
paid for his destruction.

The emperor Theodosius did not long survive the most humiliating circumstance of an inglorious
life. As he was riding, or hunting, in the neighborhood of Constantinople, he was thrown from
his horse into the River Lycus: the spine of the back was injured by the fall; and he expired
some days afterwards, in the fiftieth year of his age, and the forty-third of his reign. His
sister Pulcheria, whose authority had been controlled both in civil and ecclesiastical affairs
by the pernicious influence of the eunuchs, was unanimously proclaimed Empress of the East;
and the Romans, for the first time, submitted to a female reign. No sooner had Pulcheria ascended
the throne, than she indulged her own and the public resentment, by an act of popular justice.
Without any legal trial, the eunuch Chrysaphius was executed before the gates of the city;
and the immense riches which had been accumulated by the rapacious favorite, served only to
hasten and to justify his punishment. Amidst the general acclamations of the clergy and people,
the empress did not forget the prejudice and disadvantage to which her sex was exposed; and
she wisely resolved to prevent their murmurs by the choice of a colleague, who would always
respect the superior rank and virgin chastity of his wife. She gave her hand to Marcian, a
senator, about sixty years of age; and the nominal husband of Pulcheria was solemnly invested
with the Imperial purple. The zeal which he displayed for the orthodox creed, as it was established
by the council of Chalcedon, would alone have inspired the grateful eloquence of the Catholics.
But the behavior of Marcian in a private life, and afterwards on the throne, may support a
more rational belief, that he was qualified to restore and invigorate an empire, which had
been almost dissolved by the successive weakness of two hereditary monarchs. He was born in
Thrace, and educated to the profession of arms; but Marcian's youth had been severely exercised
by poverty and misfortune, since his only resource, when he first arrived at Constantinople,
consisted in two hundred pieces of gold, which he had borrowed of a friend. He passed nineteen
years in the domestic and military service of Aspar, and his son Ardaburius; followed those
powerful generals to the Persian and African wars; and obtained, by their influence, the honorable
rank of tribune and senator. His mild disposition, and useful talents, without alarming the
jealousy, recommended Marcian to the esteem and favor of his patrons; he had seen, perhaps
he had felt, the abuses of a venal and oppressive administration; and his own example gave
weight and energy to the laws, which he promulgated for the reformation of manners.

Chapter XXXV: Invasion By Attila.--Part I.

     Invasion Of Gaul By Attila.--He Is Repulsed By Ætius And The
     Visigoths.--Attila Invades And Evacuates Italy.--The Deaths
     Of Attila, Ætius, And Valentinian The Third.

It was the opinion of Marcian, that war should be avoided, as long as it is possible to preserve
a secure and honorable peace; but it was likewise his opinion, that peace cannot be honorable
or secure, if the sovereign betrays a pusillanimous aversion to war. This temperate courage
dictated his reply to the demands of Attila, who insolently pressed the payment of the annual
tribute. The emperor signified to the Barbarians, that they must no longer insult the majesty
of Rome by the mention of a tribute; that he was disposed to reward, with becoming liberality,
the faithful friendship of his allies; but that, if they presumed to violate the public peace,
they should feel that he possessed troops, and arms, and resolution, to repel their attacks.
The same language, even in the camp of the Huns, was used by his ambassador Apollonius, whose
bold refusal to deliver the presents, till he had been admitted to a personal interview, displayed
a sense of dignity, and a contempt of danger, which Attila was not prepared to expect from
the degenerate Romans. He threatened to chastise the rash successor of Theodosius; but he hesitated
whether he should first direct his invincible arms against the Eastern or the Western empire.
While mankind awaited his decision with awful suspense, he sent an equal defiance to the courts
of Ravenna and Constantinople; and his ministers saluted the two emperors with the same haughty
declaration. "Attila, my lord, and thy lord, commands thee to provide a palace for his immediate
reception." But as the Barbarian despised, or affected to despise, the Romans of the East,
whom he had so often vanquished, he soon declared his resolution of suspending the easy conquest,
till he had achieved a more glorious and important enterprise. In the memorable invasions of
Gaul and Italy, the Huns were naturally attracted by the wealth and fertility of those provinces;
but the particular motives and provocations of Attila can only be explained by the state of
the Western empire under the reign of Valentinian, or, to speak more correctly, under the administration
of Ætius.

After the death of his rival Boniface, Ætius had prudently retired to the tents of the Huns;
and he was indebted to their alliance for his safety and his restoration. Instead of the suppliant
language of a guilty exile, he solicited his pardon at the head of sixty thousand Barbarians;
and the empress Placidia confessed, by a feeble resistance, that the condescension, which might
have been ascribed to clemency, was the effect of weakness or fear. She delivered herself,
her son Valentinian, and the Western empire, into the hands of an insolent subject; nor could
Placidia protect the son-in-law of Boniface, the virtuous and faithful Sebastian, from the
implacable persecution which urged him from one kingdom to another, till he miserably perished
in the service of the Vandals. The fortunate Ætius, who was immediately promoted to the rank
of patrician, and thrice invested with the honors of the consulship, assumed, with the title
of master of the cavalry and infantry, the whole military power of the state; and he is sometimes
styled, by contemporary writers, the duke, or general, of the Romans of the West. His prudence,
rather than his virtue, engaged him to leave the grandson of Theodosius in the possession of
the purple; and Valentinian was permitted to enjoy the peace and luxury of Italy, while the
patrician appeared in the glorious light of a hero and a patriot, who supported near twenty
years the ruins of the Western empire. The Gothic historian ingenuously confesses, that Ætius
was born for the salvation of the Roman republic; and the following portrait, though it is
drawn in the fairest colors, must be allowed to contain a much larger proportion of truth than
of flattery. "His mother was a wealthy and noble Italian, and his father Gaudentius, who held
a distinguished rank in the province of Scythia, gradually rose from the station of a military
domestic, to the dignity of master of the cavalry. Their son, who was enrolled almost in his
infancy in the guards, was given as a hostage, first to Alaric, and afterwards to the Huns;
and he successively obtained the civil and military honors of the palace, for which he was
equally qualified by superior merit. The graceful figure of Ætius was not above the middle
stature; but his manly limbs were admirably formed for strength, beauty, and agility; and he
excelled in the martial exercises of managing a horse, drawing the bow, and darting the javelin.
He could patiently endure the want of food, or of sleep; and his mind and body were alike capable
of the most laborious efforts. He possessed the genuine courage that can despise not only dangers,
but injuries: and it was impossible either to corrupt, or deceive, or intimidate the firm integrity
of his soul." The Barbarians, who had seated themselves in the Western provinces, were insensibly
taught to respect the faith and valor of the patrician Ætius. He soothed their passions, consulted
their prejudices, balanced their interests, and checked their ambition. A seasonable treaty,
which he concluded with Genseric, protected Italy from the depredations of the Vandals; the
independent Britons implored and acknowledged his salutary aid; the Imperial authority was
restored and maintained in Gaul and Spain; and he compelled the Franks and the Suevi, whom
he had vanquished in the field, to become the useful confederates of the republic.

From a principle of interest, as well as gratitude, Ætius assiduously cultivated the alliance
of the Huns. While he resided in their tents as a hostage, or an exile, he had familiarly conversed
with Attila himself, the nephew of his benefactor; and the two famous antagonists appeared
to have been connected by a personal and military friendship, which they afterwards confirmed
by mutual gifts, frequent embassies, and the education of Carpilio, the son of Ætius, in the
camp of Attila. By the specious professions of gratitude and voluntary attachment, the patrician
might disguise his apprehensions of the Scythian conqueror, who pressed the two empires with
his innumerable armies. His demands were obeyed or eluded. When he claimed the spoils of a
vanquished city, some vases of gold, which had been fraudulently embezzled, the civil and military
governors of Noricum were immediately despatched to satisfy his complaints: and it is evident,
from their conversation with Maximin and Priscus, in the royal village, that the valor and
prudence of Ætius had not saved the Western Romans from the common ignominy of tribute. Yet
his dexterous policy prolonged the advantages of a salutary peace; and a numerous army of Huns
and Alani, whom he had attached to his person, was employed in the defence of Gaul. Two colonies
of these Barbarians were judiciously fixed in the territories of Valens and Orleans; and their
active cavalry secured the important passages of the Rhone and of the Loire. These savage allies
were not indeed less formidable to the subjects than to the enemies of Rome. Their original
settlement was enforced with the licentious violence of conquest; and the province through
which they marched was exposed to all the calamities of a hostile invasion. Strangers to the
emperor or the republic, the Alani of Gaul was devoted to the ambition of Ætius, and though
he might suspect, that, in a contest with Attila himself, they would revolt to the standard
of their national king, the patrician labored to restrain, rather than to excite, their zeal
and resentment against the Goths, the Burgundians, and the Franks.

The kingdom established by the Visigoths in the southern provinces of Gaul, had gradually acquired
strength and maturity; and the conduct of those ambitious Barbarians, either in peace or war,
engaged the perpetual vigilance of Ætius. After the death of Wallia, the Gothic sceptre devolved
to Theodoric, the son of the great Alaric; and his prosperous reign of more than thirty years,
over a turbulent people, may be allowed to prove, that his prudence was supported by uncommon
vigor, both of mind and body. Impatient of his narrow limits, Theodoric aspired to the possession
of Arles, the wealthy seat of government and commerce; but the city was saved by the timely
approach of Ætius; and the Gothic king, who had raised the siege with some loss and disgrace,
was persuaded, for an adequate subsidy, to divert the martial valor of his subjects in a Spanish
war. Yet Theodoric still watched, and eagerly seized, the favorable moment of renewing his
hostile attempts. The Goths besieged Narbonne, while the Belgic provinces were invaded by the
Burgundians; and the public safety was threatened on every side by the apparent union of the
enemies of Rome. On every side, the activity of Ætius, and his Scythian cavalry, opposed a
firm and successful resistance. Twenty thousand Burgundians were slain in battle; and the remains
of the nation humbly accepted a dependent seat in the mountains of Savoy. The walls of Narbonne
had been shaken by the battering engines, and the inhabitants had endured the last extremities
of famine, when Count Litorius, approaching in silence, and directing each horseman to carry
behind him two sacks of flour, cut his way through the intrenchments of the besiegers. The
siege was immediately raised; and the more decisive victory, which is ascribed to the personal
conduct of Ætius himself, was marked with the blood of eight thousand Goths. But in the absence
of the patrician, who was hastily summoned to Italy by some public or private interest, Count
Litorius succeeded to the command; and his presumption soon discovered that far different talents
are required to lead a wing of cavalry, or to direct the operations of an important war. At
the head of an army of Huns, he rashly advanced to the gates of Thoulouse, full of careless
contempt for an enemy whom his misfortunes had rendered prudent, and his situation made desperate.
The predictions of the augurs had inspired Litorius with the profane confidence that he should
enter the Gothic capital in triumph; and the trust which he reposed in his Pagan allies, encouraged
him to reject the fair conditions of peace, which were repeatedly proposed by the bishops in
the name of Theodoric. The king of the Goths exhibited in his distress the edifying contrast
of Christian piety and moderation; nor did he lay aside his sackcloth and ashes till he was
prepared to arm for the combat. His soldiers, animated with martial and religious enthusiasm,
assaulted the camp of Litorius. The conflict was obstinate; the slaughter was mutual. The Roman
general, after a total defeat, which could be imputed only to his unskilful rashness, was actually
led through the streets of Thoulouse, not in his own, but in a hostile triumph; and the misery
which he experienced, in a long and ignominious captivity, excited the compassion of the Barbarians
themselves. Such a loss, in a country whose spirit and finances were long since exhausted,
could not easily be repaired; and the Goths, assuming, in their turn, the sentiments of ambition
and revenge, would have planted their victorious standards on the banks of the Rhone, if the
presence of Ætius had not restored strength and discipline to the Romans. The two armies expected
the signal of a decisive action; but the generals, who were conscious of each other's force,
and doubtful of their own superiority, prudently sheathed their swords in the field of battle;
and their reconciliation was permanent and sincere. Now there were in the morphology of the masses
to study a lot and described. One could point the consideration of that a mere crowd is no
mass yet, so long as those commitments made have her not have, but the concession to be made that
in any crowd easily tendency to form a psychological group emerges the. One would have different,
more or less stable compounds, the spontaneously come, pay attention to the existence, conditions
of their formation and decay of their study. Above all, we would be the difference between masses,
the leaders have one, and employ masses leaderless. Whether the masses with the leaders are more
original and more complete, if not in the other the leader of an idea, an abstraction can be replaced,
including their masses and even the religious head of the reconciliation form with unaufzeigbaren
whether a common tendency, a request, in which a plurality can take part, makes the same replacement. Abstract
This could in turn more or less completely the person of a secondary leader, as it embodied in, and
out of the relationship between ideas and leaders would flow interesting manifolds. The leader
or the leading idea might also be negative, so to speak, and the hatred of a particular person or
institution could also contribute unifying and evoke similar emotional ties as positive attachment.
The question was then whether the leader of the essence of a truly indispensable for u. a. m.
But all these issues in the literature of mass psychology may also be treated to the part will not
be able to our attention by the basic problems distract psychological, which we structure a mass
offered are in.

We are first a reflection riveted by the the shortest way to prove promises us that there are
libido bonds, which mass characterize one. We are against keeping us how the
people generally behave to each other emotionally. According to the famous
Schopenhauer's parable of the freezing porcupines tolerate any one
too intimate approach of the other.

"A society porcupines crowded, a cold winter day, very close together in order by the mutual heat, freezing
to protect against. However, they soon felt the mutual spines, which
they then apart again.

Now, if the need of the warming they get closer together and develop that second evil was repeated,
so that they tossed between the two diseases have been and, until they had found moderate a distance
where they could best take on it.

"(Parerga and Paralipomena, Part II, XXXI., similes and parables.) According to the testimony of
psychoanalysis leaves almost every intimate emotional relation between two persons of longer
duration - marriage relationship, friendship, parental and childhood [17] - a residue of negative, hostile
feelings, which must be eliminated only through repression. Naked is when each partner struggles with his
associates, subordinates to their superiors any grumbles. The same happens when people unite to
form larger units. Every time two families through marriage to connect, keeps each of them for the
better or more distinguished at the expense of others.

Of two neighboring towns, every little canton most jealous rival of the others, each looks with
disdain on the other down. Closely allied tribes repel each other, the Süddeutsche does not like
the North German, the Englishman said after the Scots all evil, the Spaniard despises the Portuguese.
That for larger differences are difficult to overcome an aversion shows the Gaul against the Germans,
the Aryan for the Semite, the whites against the blacks, has ceased to surprise us. [17] Perhaps
with the sole exception of the relationship of mother to son, the narcissism based on, subsequent
rivalry not by disturbed and an approach to sexual object choice reinforced by will. If the hostility
against other loved ones directed, we call it emotional ambivalence and explain this case in probably
all too rational manner by the many occasions for conflicts of interest that just result in such
intimate relationships. In the prominent openly dislikes foreigners and rejections from related, we
can use the expression of self-love, narcissism one realize that his self-seeking and thus behaves as
if the occurrence of a deviation from his individual training a criticism of them and call them alter with
to bring.

Why does such a great sensitivity of the details of this differentiation should have thrown in straight,
we do not know, but it is unmistakable that in this whole behavior of people readiness for hatred,
an aggressiveness manifests one whose origin is unknown, and it is
a fundamental character would award.

A recent (1920) published essay "Beyond the Pleasure Principle," in I've tried to love and hate with a supposed
opposition between life and death instincts to link polarity to, and the sexual instincts as
the purest representatives of the former, the life instincts to represent. But all this intolerance disappear,
temporarily or permanently, through mass education and mass. As long as the mass education persists
or if it extends to the individuals behave as if they were, they tolerate the uniform nature of the other,
make him feel the same and no feeling of repulsion against him. Such a limitation of narcissism can
be a moment generated by our theoretical views only to, through libidinal attachment to other people.
The self is only at the Fremdliebe, love objects, a barrier [18]. You will immediately raise
the question of whether or not the community of interest, in and of itself and without any libidinal
contribution to tolerance of others and to take into account lead him on must. One objection is that
the decision to meet that in this way a permanent limitation of narcissism
not yet come about, since this tolerance does not last longer than
the immediate advantage of the cooperation of the other one takes off.

But the practical value of this controversy is less than one would think, since
experience has shown that in the case of the workforce regularly libidinal field
between comrades produced what the relationship between the Advantageous also
extend over and mount.

It happens in the social relations of men the same as the psychoanalytic
research in the course of development of individual libido has become
known.

The libido is modeled to satisfy the vital needs of large and selects the people involved to
their first objects. And as with individuals, so is selfishness in the development of all mankind
only love as a cultural factor in terms of a change from cast to altruism. And both the sexual love
for her with all the coercion of the fluid to spare women, although what was dear to the woman,
and the desexualized sublimated homosexual love for another man, which resulted from joint work. [18]
S. for the introduction of narcissism in 1914, collection of small writings on neuroses, fourth
episode 1918th When in the mass constraints of the narcissistic self-love appear, therefore, does
not look them out, this is a compelling indication that the nature of mass education in novel
libidinal ties the mass of members is another. Now, however, urgently ask our interest, the nature of
those ties in the mass. In the psychoanalytic theory of neurosis we have been almost exclusively with
the binding of such love drives her objects employed in the direct sexual aims still haunt. To such
sexual goals, it can not seem to act in the mass. We have it love instincts to do with here, the less energetic
to work so without their original goals deflected are of that. Now we have already within the normal
sexual object cathexis observed phenomena, a deflection of the shoot of his sexual goal match. We have
a degree of infatuation described and recognized that they some impairment of the ego with him to bring
one. This phenomena of being in love, we are now attention turn to more detailed, the reasonable expectation
of relationships to find them in relating to the bonds in the masses can be transferred. We would
also like to know if the type of object cathexis, as we know from the sex life, it is the only
way of emotional tie to another person represents them, or whether we have to take into consideration
mechanisms such other yet. We know indeed from psychoanalysis, that there are still mechanisms of emotional attachment
are other, called identification, insufficient well-known, difficult
to be represented processes under examination for a while from the
subject of mass psychology away is good now.

VII identification. The identification of psychoanalysis as the earliest manifestation of an emotional
tie with another person is known.

She plays in the background to the Oedipus complex a role. The little boy puts a special interest for
his father the day he wants to be and be like him, all things come into his place. Let's say
quietly: he takes the father to his ideal.

This behavior has nothing passive or feminine attitude towards his father (and a man at all) to
do with it is rather exquisite male. It tolerates very well with the Oedipus complex, helps prepare
it. Simultaneously with this identification with the father or a bit later, the boy has begun
to correct object cathexis of the mother of the attachment type to make one. So then he shows two different
psychological bonds to the mother a smooth sexual object cathexis, the father a good identification. The
two exist side by side for a while, with no interference or disturbance. Due to the steadily progressive
unification of mental life, they finally meet, and by this confluence gives the normal Oedipus
complex. The little boy notices that his father in the mother stands in the
way, his identification with the father now takes on a hostile tone,
and is identical with the wish, even for the mother to replace the
father.

The identification is just the beginning of ambivalent, it can also express the tenderness of
such request the removal contact. It behaves like a descendant of the first oral phase of libido
organization, in which one of the coveted and valued object by eating incorporated itself and it involves
as such destroyed. The cannibal is well known in this position stand, and he has enemies to feed loved
his, and he eats only the ones he loves. [19] [19] S. Three Essays on the Theory of Sexuality and
Abraham: studies of the earliest pregenital stage of libido ". Intern. Zeitschr. f. Psychoanalysis,
IV, 1916, in his "Clinical contributions to psychoanalysis." Internally, too. psychoanalyst.
Library. Vol 10, 1921. The fate of this father later easily identify
you lose sight of.

It may happen that the Oedipus complex undergoes a reversal, that
the father is of feminine attitude to the objects taken in, the direct
sexual drives their satisfaction expect, and then the father identified
the precursor to the object bound to become the father.

The same is true with the appropriate substitutions for the little
daughter.

It is easy to identify difference of such a father a father object choice in a formula to express the.
In the first case is the father, what have you, in the second of what you want. It is thus
the difference if the bond at the subject or the object of the ego attacks. The former is therefore
already possible before any sexual object choice. It is much harder to clearly illustrate these differences
metapsychological. It merely recognizes the identification seeks the self shape similar to
the other as to the "role model" withdrawn. For a more complex context, we solve the identification of
a neurotic symptom formation.

The little girl, to which we now want to get hold, suffering the same symptoms as his mother, for
example, same tormenting cough. This can now several ways to approach. Either the identification
of the same from the Oedipus complex, the hostile Ersetzenwollen the mother does, and the symptom
expresses the object-love father to, and it realizes the replacement of the mother under the influence
of the consciousness of guilt: You have the want to be a mother, now it's you, at least in suffering.
That is the whole mechanism of the hysterical symptom formation. Or, the symptom is the same
as that of the loved one (as, for example, Dora in "Fragment of a hysteria analysis," the cough of the
Father imitates), then we can issue only as describe the identification of the body had taken the
object choice, the choice of object identification was regressed on. We have heard that the identification
earliest and most primitive form of emotional tie is, under the conditions of formation of symptoms,
ie, the displacement, and the governing mechanisms of the unconscious
is it often happens that the object choice again for identification
is, therefore, the ego, the properties of the object took on him.

It is noteworthy that the ego is the one time these identifications, the unloved, the second time
but the loved one copied.

We must also notice that both times the identification of a highly limited is partial, a single train
of the object person borrows only. There is a third, particularly frequent and important case of symptom
formation that identification of the object relative to the copied
person quite apart .

For example, if one of the girls in the boarding school received a letter from the secret lover,
has excited the jealousy of her, and she responded with a hysterical fit, so some of her friends who
know about these attacks do, as we say in the way of mental infection. The mechanism is based
on the identification of themselves in the same position or Versetzenkönnens Versetzenwollens. The
others want to have a secret love affair and also accept, under the
influence of guilt and the associated suffering.

It would be inaccurate to claim that they are out of sympathy to the symptom. On the contrary,
compassion arises out of identification and proof of this is that such infections may also
produce or imitation, where even lower prior sympathy between the two is assumed, to exist as at
Pension friends usually. The one I was in the other, a significant analogy one point seen in,
in our example, in the same sense of readiness, it is formed then an identification on this
point, and under the influence of the pathogenic situation, move them identify a symptom, which is
the one I has produced.

The identification of the symptom becomes the evidence of a cover instead of the two selves,
to be kept repressed. That from these three sources have learned we can summarize as meaning that, first,
identify the original form of emotional attachment to an object is, secondly, that they a regressive
way to substitute for a libidinal object binding, as if by introjection of the object into the ego,
and that thirdly newly perceived commonality with a person who is not an object of sexual impulses, may
emerge in each. The more important this community is, the more successful has this partial identification
will be able to and so the beginning of a new bond in accordance We suspect. Already that the mutual
binding individuals in the nature of such an identification by an important emotional common ground
is, and can suggest this commonality lies in the nature of the bond to the leader. Another idea we can say
that we have removed them far too exhausted to have identification of the problem that we are faced
with the task, the psychology "empathy" is the name, and the largest share of our understanding
of other people Ichfremde has. But we want here are the emotional effects of identification confined
to and role in our intellectual life aside, let her. The psychoanalytic research, which also has the more difficult
problems of psychosis taken has attack occasionally, we could also identify in some other
cases that demonstrate our understanding are not accessible without further. I will of these cases
than for our further consideration in detail two treat substance. The genesis of male homosexuality
is a large number of cases, the following: The young man is unusually
long and hard in the sense of the Oedipus complex to have been his
mother locked in.

Finally, it comes after the completion of puberty, the time for another sexual object to exchange the mother.
As happens a sudden turn, the youth does not leave his mother, but identifies with her, he transformed
it into and is now looking for objects that can be replaced I told him that he can cultivate love,
and so, as he of the mother had experienced. This is a common process that can be confirmed and
often arbitrary, of course, quite independent of any assumption is that the organic drive and the
motives of those sudden change makes about. A striking feature of this identification, their Spreading
converts the I a very important piece in the sexual character, following the example of the previous
object in order. This object is the self-abandoned, whether entirely or only in the sense that
it is preserved in the unconscious, there is no question here. The identification with the abandoned
or lost property to replace it, this object into the ego, introjection is for us is no longer a novelty.
Such a process can be occasionally observed directly at the small child. Recently, the International
Journal of Psychoanalysis published in such an observation that a child over the loss of a kitten was
unhappy, boldly declared that it was now even the kittens, which according to all fours to crawl, eat
at the table did not, etc. [20] [20] Markuszewicz, contribution to autistic thinking in children, International
Journal of Psychoanalysis, VI., 1920. Another example of such introjection of the object has
given us the analysis of melancholy, which even the real affection
or emotional loss of their beloved object under one of the most obvious
causes.

One
of the main character of these cases is the cruel self-depreciation of the ego, in conjunction with
relentless self-criticism and bitter self-reproach. Analyses have shown that assessment of these allegations
and in fact these are the object of the ego and revenge in this pose. The shadow of the object
to the ego like I said in another place. The introjection of the object is of outstanding clarity. This
melancholy show us something else, what considerations may be important for our future. They show us the
ego divided, divided into two pieces, which the one against the other
rages by.

This
other piece is by changing the introjection, which includes the lost object. But the play, which
is operated so cruel, not unknown. It includes a belief that a critical agency in the ego, which even in
normal times I has faced criticism, just never so relentlessly and so unfair. We have on previous
occasions to make the assumption (narcissism, mourning and melancholy) that in our I developed
such an instance, which is separated from the other and with him I can get into conflicts. We called
it the "ego ideal" and wrote its functions to the self, the moral conscience, the dream-censorship and
the main influence on the predation. We said that she was the heir
of the original narcissism in which the ego itself was enough childish.

 The Huns, who fought under the eyes of their king pierced through the feeble
and doubtful centre of the allies, separated their wings from each other, and wheeling, with
a rapid effort, to the left, directed their whole force against the Visigoths. As Theodoric
rode along the ranks, to animate his troops, he received a mortal stroke from the javelin of
Andages, a noble Ostrogoth, and immediately fell from his horse. The wounded king was oppressed
in the general disorder, and trampled under the feet of his own cavalry; and this important
death served to explain the ambiguous prophecy of the haruspices. Attila already exulted in
the confidence of victory, when the valiant Torismond descended from the hills, and verified
the remainder of the prediction. The Visigoths, who had been thrown into confusion by the flight
or defection of the Alani, gradually restored their order of battle; and the Huns were undoubtedly
vanquished, since Attila was compelled to retreat. He had exposed his person with the rashness
of a private soldier; but the intrepid troops of the centre had pushed forwards beyond the
rest of the line; their attack was faintly supported; their flanks were unguarded; and the
conquerors of Scythia and Germany were saved by the approach of the night from a total defeat.
They retired within the circle of wagons that fortified their camp; and the dismounted squadrons
prepared themselves for a defence, to which neither their arms, nor their temper, were adapted.
The event was doubtful: but Attila had secured a last and honorable resource. The saddles and
rich furniture of the cavalry were collected, by his order, into a funeral pile; and the magnanimous
Barbarian had resolved, if his intrenchments should be forced, to rush headlong into the flames,
and to deprive his enemies of the glory which they might have acquired, by the death or captivity
of Attila.

But his enemies had passed the night in equal disorder and anxiety. The inconsiderate courage
of Torismond was tempted to urge the pursuit, till he unexpectedly found himself, with a few
followers, in the midst of the Scythian wagons. In the confusion of a nocturnal combat, he
was thrown from his horse; and the Gothic prince must have perished like his father, if his
youthful strength, and the intrepid zeal of his companions, had not rescued him from this dangerous
situation. In the same manner, but on the left of the line, Ætius himself, separated from his
allies, ignorant of their victory, and anxious for their fate, encountered and escaped the
hostile troops that were scattered over the plains of Châlons; and at length reached the camp
of the Goths, which he could only fortify with a slight rampart of shields, till the dawn of
day. The Imperial general was soon satisfied of the defeat of Attila, who still remained inactive
within his intrenchments; and when he contemplated the bloody scene, he observed, with secret
satisfaction, that the loss had principally fallen on the Barbarians. The body of Theodoric,
pierced with honorable wounds, was discovered under a heap of the slain: is subjects bewailed
the death of their king and father; but their tears were mingled with songs and acclamations,
and his funeral rites were performed in the face of a vanquished enemy. The Goths, clashing
their arms, elevated on a buckler his eldest son Torismond, to whom they justly ascribed the
glory of their success; and the new king accepted the obligation of revenge as a sacred portion
of his paternal inheritance. Yet the Goths themselves were astonished by the fierce and undaunted
aspect of their formidable antagonist; and their historian has compared Attila to a lion encompassed
in his den, and threatening his hunters with redoubled fury. The kings and nations who might
have deserted his standard in the hour of distress, were made sensible that the displeasure
of their monarch was the most imminent and inevitable danger. All his instruments of martial
music incessantly sounded a loud and animating strain of defiance; and the foremost troops
who advanced to the assault were checked or destroyed by showers of arrows from every side
of the intrenchments. It was determined, in a general council of war, to besiege the king of
the Huns in his camp, to intercept his provisions, and to reduce him to the alternative of
a disgraceful treaty or an unequal combat. But the impatience of the Barbarians soon disdained
these cautious and dilatory measures; and the mature policy of Ætius was apprehensive that,
after the extirpation of the Huns, the republic would be oppressed by the pride and power of
the Gothic nation. The patrician exerted the superior ascendant of authority and reason to
calm the passions, which the son of Theodoric considered as a duty; represented, with seeming
affection and real truth, the dangers of absence and delay and persuaded Torismond to disappoint,
by his speedy return, the ambitious designs of his brothers, who might occupy the throne and
treasures of Thoulouse. After the departure of the Goths, and the separation of the allied
army, Attila was surprised at the vast silence that reigned over the plains of Châlons: the
suspicion of some hostile stratagem detained him several days within the circle of his wagons,
and his retreat beyond the Rhine confessed the last victory which was achieved in the name
of the Western empire. Meroveus and his Franks, observing a prudent distance, and magnifying
the opinion of their strength by the numerous fires which they kindled every night, continued
to follow the rear of the Huns till they reached the confines of Thuringia. The Thuringians
served in the army of Attila: they traversed, both in their march and in their return, the
territories of the Franks; and it was perhaps in this war that they exercised the cruelties
which, about fourscore years afterwards, were revenged by the son of Clovis. Such were those
savage ancestors, whose imaginary virtues have sometimes excited the praise and envy of civilized
ages.

Chapter XXXV: Invasion By Attila.--Part III.

Neither the spirit, nor the forces, nor the reputation, of Attila, were
impaired by the failure of the Gallic expedition In the ensuing spring
he repeated his demand of the princess Honoria, and her patrimonial
treasures. Those
Barbarians were unskilled in the methods of conducting a regular siege,
which, even among the ancients, required some knowledge, or at least
some practice, of the mechanic arts. But the labor of many thousand
provincials and captives, whose lives were sacrificed without pity,
might execute the most painful and dangerous work. The skill of the
Roman artists might be corrupted to the destruction of their country.
The walls of Aquileia were assaulted by a formidable train of battering
rams, movable turrets, and engines, that threw stones, darts, and fire;
and the monarch of the Huns employed the forcible impulse of hope, fear,
emulation, and interest, to subvert the only barrier which delayed the
conquest of Italy. Aquileia was at that period one of the richest, the
most populous, and the strongest of the maritime cities of the Adriatic
coast. The Gothic auxiliaries, who appeared to have served under their
native princes, Alaric and Antala, communicated their intrepid spirit;
and the citizens still remembered the glorious and successful resistance
which their ancestors had opposed to a fierce, inexorable Barbarian, who
disgraced the majesty of the Roman purple. Three months were consumed
without effect in the siege of the Aquileia; till the want of
provisions, and the clamors of his army, compelled Attila to relinquish
the enterprise; and reluctantly to issue his orders, that the troops
should strike their tents the next morning, and begin their retreat.
But as he rode round the walls, pensive, angry, and disappointed, he
observed a stork preparing to leave her nest, in one of the towers, and
to fly with her infant family towards the country. He seized, with the
ready penetration of a statesman, this trifling incident, which chance
had offered to superstition; and exclaimed, in a loud and cheerful tone,
that such a domestic bird, so constantly attached to human society,
would never have abandoned her ancient seats, unless those towers had
been devoted to impending ruin and solitude. When he took possession of the royal palace of Milan, he
was surprised and offended at the sight of a picture which represented
the Cæsars seated on their throne, and the princes of Scythia prostrate
at their feet. The revenge which Attila inflicted on this monument of
Roman vanity, was harmless and ingenious. He commanded a painter to
reverse the figures and the attitudes; and the emperors were delineated
on the same canvas, approaching in a suppliant posture to empty their
bags of tributary gold before the throne of the Scythian monarch.
The spectators must have confessed the truth and propriety of the
alteration; and were perhaps tempted to apply, on this singular
occasion, the well-known fable of the dispute between the lion and the
man. Yet the savage
destroyer undesignedly laid the foundation of a republic, which
revived, in the feudal state of Europe, the art and spirit of commercial
industry. The celebrated name of Venice, or Venetia, was formerly
diffused over a large and fertile province of Italy, from the confines
of Pannonia to the River Addua, and from the Po to the Rhætian and
Julian Alps. Before the irruption of the Barbarians, fifty Venetian
cities flourished in peace and prosperity: Aquileia was placed in the
most conspicuous station: but the ancient dignity of Padua was supported
by agriculture and manufactures; and the property of five hundred
citizens, who were entitled to the equestrian rank, must have amounted,
at the strictest computation, to one million seven hundred thousand
pounds. Many families of Aquileia, Padua, and the adjacent towns, who
fled from the sword of the Huns, found a safe, though obscure, refuge
in the neighboring islands. At the extremity of the Gulf, where the
Adriatic feebly imitates the tides of the ocean, near a hundred small
islands are separated by shallow water from the continent, and protected
from the waves by several long slips of land, which admit the entrance
of vessels through some secret and narrow channels. Till the middle of
the fifth century, these remote and sequestered spots remained without
cultivation, with few inhabitants, and almost without a name. But the
manners of the Venetian fugitives, their arts and their government,
were gradually formed by their new situation; and one of the epistles
of Cassiodorus, which describes their condition about seventy years
afterwards, may be considered as the primitive monument of the republic.
 The minister of Theodoric compares them, in his quaint declamatory
style, to water-fowl, who had fixed their nests on the bosom of the
waves; and though he allows, that the Venetian provinces had formerly
contained many noble families, he insinuates, that they were now reduced
by misfortune to the same level of humble poverty. Fish was the common,
and almost the universal, food of every rank: their only treasure
consisted in the plenty of salt, which they extracted from the sea:
and the exchange of that commodity, so essential to human life, was
substituted in the neighboring markets to the currency of gold and
silver. A people, whose habitations might be doubtfully assigned to the
earth or water, soon became alike familiar with the two elements; and
the demands of avarice succeeded to those of necessity. The islanders,
who, from Grado to Chiozza, were intimately connected with each other,
penetrated into the heart of Italy, by the secure, though laborious,
navigation of the rivers and inland canals. Their vessels, which were
continually increasing in size and number, visited all the harbors of
the Gulf; and the marriage which Venice annually celebrates with
the Adriatic, was contracted in her early infancy. The epistle of
Cassiodorus, the Prætorian præfect, is addressed to the maritime
tribunes; and he exhorts them, in a mild tone of authority, to animate
the zeal of their countrymen for the public service, which required
their assistance to transport the magazines of wine and oil from the
province of Istria to the royal city of Ravenna. The ambiguous office
of these magistrates is explained by the tradition, that, in the twelve
principal islands, twelve tribunes, or judges, were created by an annual
and popular election. The existence of the Venetian republic under the
Gothic kingdom of Italy, is attested by the same authentic record, which
annihilates their lofty claim of original and perpetual independence.

The Italians, who had long since renounced the exercise of arms, were surprised, after forty
years' peace, by the approach of a formidable Barbarian, whom they abhorred, as the enemy of
their religion, as well as of their republic. Amidst the general consternation, Ætius alone
was incapable of fear; but it was impossible that he should achieve, alone and unassisted,
any military exploits worthy of his former renown. The Barbarians who had defended Gaul, refused
to march to the relief of Italy; and the succors promised by the Eastern emperor were distant
and doubtful. Since Ætius, at the head of his domestic troops, still maintained the field,
and harassed or retarded the march of Attila, he never showed himself more truly great, than
at the time when his conduct was blamed by an ignorant and ungrateful people. If the mind of
Valentinian had been susceptible of any generous sentiments, he would have chosen such a general
for his example and his guide. But the timid grandson of Theodosius, instead of sharing the
dangers, escaped from the sound of war; and his hasty retreat from Ravenna to Rome, from an
impregnable fortress to an open capital, betrayed his secret intention of abandoning Italy,
as soon as the danger should approach his Imperial person. This shameful abdication was suspended,
however, by the spirit of doubt and delay, which commonly adheres to pusillanimous counsels,
and sometimes corrects their pernicious tendency. The Western emperor, with the senate and
people of Rome, embraced the more salutary resolution of deprecating, by a solemn and suppliant
embassy, the wrath of Attila. This important commission was accepted by Avienus, who, from
his birth and riches, his consular dignity, the numerous train of his clients, and his personal
abilities, held the first rank in the Roman senate. The specious and artful character of Avienus
was admirably qualified to conduct a negotiation either of public or private interest: his
colleague Trigetius had exercised the Prætorian præfecture of Italy; and Leo, bishop of Rome,
consented to expose his life for the safety of his flock. The genius of Leo was exercised and
displayed in the public misfortunes; and he has deserved the appellation of Great, by the successful
zeal with which he labored to establish his opinions and his authority, under the venerable
names of orthodox faith and ecclesiastical discipline. The Roman ambassadors were introduced
to the tent of Attila, as he lay encamped at the place where the slow-winding Mincius is lost
in the foaming waves of the Lake Benacus, and trampled, with his Scythian cavalry, the farms
of Catullus and Virgil. The Barbarian monarch listened with favorable, and even respectful,
attention; and the deliverance of Italy was purchased by the immense ransom, or dowry, of the
princess Honoria. The state of his army might facilitate the treaty, and hasten his retreat.
Their martial spirit was relaxed by the wealth and indolence of a warm climate. The shepherds
of the North, whose ordinary food consisted of milk and raw flesh, indulged themselves too
freely in the use of bread, of wine, and of meat, prepared and seasoned by the arts of cookery;
and the progress of disease revenged in some measure the injuries of the Italians. When Attila
declared his resolution of carrying his victorious arms to the gates of Rome, he was admonished
by his friends, as well as by his enemies, that Alaric had not long survived the conquest of
the eternal city. His mind, superior to real danger, was assaulted by imaginary terrors; nor
could he escape the influence of superstition, which had so often been subservient to his designs.
The pressing eloquence of Leo, his majestic aspect and sacerdotal robes, excited the veneration
of Attila for the spiritual father of the Christians. The apparition of the two apostles, St.
Peter and St. Paul, who menaced the Barbarian with instant death, if he rejected the prayer
of their successor, is one of the noblest legends of ecclesiastical tradition. The safety of
Rome might deserve the interposition of celestial beings; and some indulgence is due to a fable,
which has been represented by the pencil of Raphael, and the chisel of Algardi.

Before the king of the Huns evacuated Italy, he threatened to return more dreadful, and more
implacable, if his bride, the princess Honoria, were not delivered to his ambassadors within
the term stipulated by the treaty. Yet, in the mean while, Attila relieved his tender anxiety,
by adding a beautiful maid, whose name was Ildico, to the list of his innumerable wives. Their
marriage was celebrated with barbaric pomp and festivity, at his wooden palace beyond the Danube;
and the monarch, oppressed with wine and sleep, retired at a late hour from the banquet to
the nuptial bed. His attendants continued to respect his pleasures, or his repose, the greatest
part of the ensuing day, till the unusual silence alarmed their fears and suspicions; and,
after attempting to awaken Attila by loud and repeated cries, they at length broke into the
royal apartment. They found the trembling bride sitting by the bedside, hiding her face with
her veil, and lamenting her own danger, as well as the death of the king, who had expired during
the night. An artery had suddenly burst: and as Attila lay in a supine posture, he was suffocated
by a torrent of blood, which, instead of finding a passage through the nostrils, regurgitated
into the lungs and stomach. His body was solemnly exposed in the midst of the plain, under
a silken pavilion; and the chosen squadrons of the Huns, wheeling round in measured evolutions,
chanted a funeral song to the memory of a hero, glorious in his life, invincible in his death,
the father of his people, the scourge of his enemies, and the terror of the world. According
to their national custom, the Barbarians cut off a part of their hair, gashed their faces with
unseemly wounds, and bewailed their valiant leader as he deserved, not with the tears of women,
but with the blood of warriors. The remains of Attila were enclosed within three coffins, of
gold, of silver, and of iron, and privately buried in the night: the spoils of nations were
thrown into his grave; the captives who had opened the ground were inhumanly massacred; and
the same Huns, who had indulged such excessive grief, feasted, with dissolute and intemperate
mirth, about the recent sepulchre of their king. It was reported at Constantinople, that on
the fortunate night on which he expired, Marcian beheld in a dream the bow of Attila broken
asunder: and the report may be allowed to prove, how seldom the image of that formidable Barbarian
was absent from the mind of a Roman emperor.

The revolution which subverted the empire of the Huns, established the fame of Attila, whose
genius alone had sustained the huge and disjointed fabric. After his death, the boldest chieftains
aspired to the rank of kings; the most powerful kings refused to acknowledge a superior; and
the numerous sons, whom so many various mothers bore to the deceased monarch, divided and disputed,
like a private inheritance, the sovereign command of the nations of Germany and Scythia. The
bold Ardaric felt and represented the disgrace of this servile partition; and his subjects,
the warlike Gepidæ, with the Ostrogoths, under the conduct of three valiant brothers, encouraged
their allies to vindicate the rights of freedom and royalty. In a bloody and decisive conflict
on the banks of the River Netad, in Pannonia, the lance of the Gepidæ, the sword of the Goths,
the arrows of the Huns, the Suevic infantry, the light arms of the Heruli, and the heavy weapons
of the Alani, encountered or supported each other; and the victory of the Ardaric was accompanied
with the slaughter of thirty thousand of his enemies. Ellac, the eldest son of Attila, lost
his life and crown in the memorable battle of Netad: his early valor had raised him to the
throne of the Acatzires, a Scythian people, whom he subdued; and his father, who loved the
superior merit, would have envied the death of Ellac. His brother, Dengisich, with an army
of Huns, still formidable in their flight and ruin, maintained his ground above fifteen years
on the banks of the Danube. The palace of Attila, with the old country of Dacia, from the Carpathian
hills to the Euxine, became the seat of a new power, which was erected by Ardaric, king of
the Gepidæ. The Pannonian conquests from Vienna to Sirmium, were occupied by the Ostrogoths;
and the settlements of the tribes, who had so bravely asserted their native freedom, were irregularly
distributed, according to the measure of their respective strength. Surrounded and oppressed
by the multitude of his father's slaves, the kingdom of Dengisich was confined to the circle
of his wagons; his desperate courage urged him to invade the Eastern empire: he fell in battle;
and his head ignominiously exposed in the Hippodrome, exhibited a grateful spectacle to the
people of Constantinople. Attila had fondly or superstitiously believed, that Irnac, the youngest
of his sons, was destined to perpetuate the glories of his race. The character of that prince,
who attempted to moderate the rashness of his brother Dengisich, was more suitable to the declining
condition of the Huns; and Irnac, with his subject hordes, retired into the heart of the Lesser
Scythia. They were soon overwhelmed by a torrent of new Barbarians, who followed the same road
which their own ancestors had formerly discovered. The Geougen, or Avares, whose residence
is assigned by the Greek writers to the shores of the ocean, impelled the adjacent tribes;
till at length the Igours of the North, issuing from the cold Siberian regions, which produce
the most valuable furs, spread themselves over the desert, as far as the Borysthenes and the
Caspian gates; and finally extinguished the empire of the Huns.

Such an event might contribute to the safety of the Eastern empire, under the reign of a prince
who conciliated the friendship, without forfeiting the esteem, of the Barbarians. But the emperor
of the West, the feeble and dissolute Valentinian, who had reached his thirty-fifth year without
attaining the age of reason or courage, abused this apparent security, to undermine the foundations
of his own throne, by the murder of the patrician Ætius. From the instinct of a base and jealous
mind, he hated the man who was universally celebrated as the terror of the Barbarians, and
the support of the republic; and his new favorite, the eunuch Heraclius, awakened the emperor
from the supine lethargy, which might be disguised, during the life of Placidia, by the excuse
of filial piety. The fame of Ætius, his wealth and dignity, the numerous and martial train
of Barbarian followers, his powerful dependants, who filled the civil offices of the state,
and the hopes of his son Gaudentius, who was already contracted to Eudoxia, the emperor's daughter,
had raised him above the rank of a subject. The ambitious designs, of which he was secretly
accused, excited the fears, as well as the resentment, of Valentinian. Ætius himself, supported
by the consciousness of his merit, his services, and perhaps his innocence, seems to have maintained
a haughty and indiscreet behavior. The patrician offended his sovereign by a hostile declaration;
he aggravated the offence, by compelling him to ratify, with a solemn oath, a treaty of reconciliation
and alliance; he proclaimed his suspicions, he neglected his safety; and from a vain confidence
that the enemy, whom he despised, was incapable even of a manly crime, he rashly ventured his
person in the palace of Rome. Whilst he urged, perhaps with intemperate vehemence, the marriage
of his son; Valentinian, drawing his sword, the first sword he had ever drawn, plunged it in
the breast of a general who had saved his empire: his courtiers and eunuchs ambitiously struggled
to imitate their master; and Ætius, pierced with a hundred wounds, fell dead in the royal presence.
Boethius, the Prætorian præfect, was killed at the same moment, and before the event could
be divulged, the principal friends of the patrician were summoned to the palace, and separately
murdered. The horrid deed, palliated by the specious names of justice and necessity, was immediately
communicated by the emperor to his soldiers, his subjects, and his allies. The nations, who
were strangers or enemies to Ætius, generously deplored the unworthy fate of a hero: the Barbarians,
who had been attached to his service, dissembled their grief and resentment: and the public
contempt, which had been so long entertained for Valentinian, was at once converted into deep
and universal abhorrence. Such sentiments seldom pervade the walls of a palace; yet the emperor
was confounded by the honest reply of a Roman, whose approbation he had not disdained to solicit.
"I am ignorant, sir, of your motives or provocations; I only know, that you have acted like
a man who cuts off his right hand with his left."

The luxury of Rome seems to have attracted the long and frequent visits of Valentinian; who
was consequently more despised at Rome than in any other part of his dominions. A republican
spirit was insensibly revived in the senate, as their authority, and even their supplies, became
necessary for the support of his feeble government. The stately demeanor of an hereditary monarch
offended their pride; and the pleasures of Valentinian were injurious to the peace and honor
of noble families. The birth of the empress Eudoxia was equal to his own, and her charms and
tender affection deserved those testimonies of love which her inconstant husband dissipated
in vague and unlawful amours. Petronius Maximus, a wealthy senator of the Anician family, who
had been twice consul, was possessed of a chaste and beautiful wife: her obstinate resistance
served only to irritate the desires of Valentinian; and he resolved to accomplish them, either
by stratagem or force. Deep gaming was one of the vices of the court: the emperor, who, by
chance or contrivance, had gained from Maximus a considerable sum, uncourteously exacted his
ring as a security for the debt; and sent it by a trusty messenger to his wife, with an order,
in her husband's name, that she should immediately attend the empress Eudoxia. The unsuspecting
wife of Maximus was conveyed in her litter to the Imperial palace; the emissaries of her impatient
lover conducted her to a remote and silent bed-chamber; and Valentinian violated, without remorse,
the laws of hospitality. Her tears, when she returned home, her deep affliction, and her bitter
reproaches against a husband whom she considered as the accomplice of his own shame, excited
Maximus to a just revenge; the desire of revenge was stimulated by ambition; and he might reasonably
aspire, by the free suffrage of the Roman senate, to the throne of a detested and despicable
rival. Valentinian, who supposed that every human breast was devoid, like his own, of friendship
and gratitude, had imprudently admitted among his guards several domestics and followers of
Ætius. Two of these, of Barbarian race were persuaded to execute a sacred and honorable duty,
by punishing with death the assassin of their patron; and their intrepid courage did not long
expect a favorable moment. Whilst Valentinian amused himself, in the field of Mars, with the
spectacle of some military sports, they suddenly rushed upon him with drawn weapons, despatched
the guilty Heraclius, and stabbed the emperor to the heart, without the least opposition from
his numerous train, who seemed to rejoice in the tyrant's death. Such was the fate of Valentinian
the Third, the last Roman emperor of the family of Theodosius. He faithfully imitated the hereditary
weakness of his cousin and his two uncles, without inheriting the gentleness, the purity, the
innocence, which alleviate, in their characters, the want of spirit and ability. Valentinian
was less excusable, since he had passions, without virtues: even his religion was questionable;
and though he never deviated into the paths of heresy, he scandalized the pious Christians
by his attachment to the profane arts of magic and divination.

As early as the time of Cicero and Varro, it was the opinion of the Roman augurs, that the
twelve vultures which Romulus had seen, represented the twelve centuries, assigned for the
fatal period of his city. This prophecy, disregarded perhaps in the season of health and prosperity,
inspired the people with gloomy apprehensions, when the twelfth century, clouded with disgrace
and misfortune, was almost elapsed; and even posterity must acknowledge with some surprise,
that the arbitrary interpretation of an accidental or fabulous circumstance has been seriously
verified in the downfall of the Western empire. But its fall was announced by a clearer omen
than the flight of vultures: the Roman government appeared every day less formidable to its
enemies, more odious and oppressive to its subjects. The taxes were multiplied with the public
distress; economy was neglected in proportion as it became necessary; and the injustice of
the rich shifted the unequal burden from themselves to the people, whom they defrauded of the
indulgences that might sometimes have alleviated their misery. The severe inquisition which
confiscated their goods, and tortured their persons, compelled the subjects of Valentinian
to prefer the more simple tyranny of the Barbarians, to fly to the woods and mountains, or
to embrace the vile and abject condition of mercenary servants. They abjured and abhorred the
name of Roman citizens, which had formerly excited the ambition of mankind. The Armorican provinces
of Gaul, and the greatest part of Spain, were-thrown into a state of disorderly independence,
by the confederations of the Bagaudæ; and the Imperial ministers pursued with proscriptive
laws, and ineffectual arms, the rebels whom they had made. If all the Barbarian conquerors
had been annihilated in the same hour, their total destruction would not have restored the
empire of the West: and if Rome still survived, she survived the loss of freedom, of virtue,
and of honor.

The loss or desolation of the provinces, from the Ocean to the Alps, impaired the glory and
greatness of Rome: her internal prosperity was irretrievably destroyed by the separation of
Africa. The rapacious Vandals confiscated the patrimonial estates of the senators, and intercepted
the regular subsidies, which relieved the poverty and encouraged the idleness of the plebeians.
The distress of the Romans was soon aggravated by an unexpected attack; and the province, so
long cultivated for their use by industrious and obedient subjects, was armed against them
by an ambitious Barbarian. Alliances were formed; and armaments, expensive and ineffectual,
were prepared, for the destruction of the common enemy; who reserved his courage to encounter
those dangers which his policy could not prevent or elude. The designs of the Roman government
were repeatedly baffled by his artful delays, ambiguous promises, and apparent concessions;
and the interposition of his formidable confederate, the king of the Huns, recalled the emperors
from the conquest of Africa to the care of their domestic safety. The revolutions of the palace,
which left the Western empire without a defender, and without a lawful prince, dispelled the
apprehensions, and stimulated the avarice, of Genseric. He immediately equipped a numerous
fleet of Vandals and Moors, and cast anchor at the mouth of the Tyber, about three months after
the death of Valentinian, and the elevation of Maximus to the Imperial throne.

The private life of the senator Petronius Maximus was often alleged as a rare example of human
felicity. His birth was noble and illustrious, since he descended from the Anician family;
his dignity was supported by an adequate patrimony in land and money; and these advantages
of fortune were accompanied with liberal arts and decent manners, which adorn or imitate the
inestimable gifts of genius and virtue. The luxury of his palace and table was hospitable and
elegant. Whenever Maximus appeared in public, he was surrounded by a train of grateful and
obsequious clients; and it is possible that among these clients, he might deserve and possess
some real friends. His merit was rewarded by the favor of the prince and senate: he thrice
exercised the office of Prætorian præfect of Italy; he was twice invested with the consulship,
and he obtained the rank of patrician. These civil honors were not incompatible with the enjoyment
of leisure and tranquillity; his hours, according to the demands of pleasure or reason, were
accurately distributed by a water-clock; and this avarice of time may be allowed to prove the
sense which Maximus entertained of his own happiness. The injury which he received from the
emperor Valentinian appears to excuse the most bloody revenge. Yet a philosopher might have
reflected, that, if the resistance of his wife had been sincere, her chastity was still inviolate,
and that it could never be restored if she had consented to the will of the adulterer. A patriot
would have hesitated before he plunged himself and his country into those inevitable calamities
which must follow the extinction of the royal house of Theodosius. The imprudent Maximus disregarded
these salutary considerations; he gratified his resentment and ambition; he saw the bleeding
corpse of Valentinian at his feet; and he heard himself saluted Emperor by the unanimous voice
of the senate and people. But the day of his inauguration was the last day of his happiness. Fine wines,
good table, beautiful room you would have otherwise have found there also, more rarely, certainly
very rarely so select company. I do not remember ever in my life, neither before nor after, table
and household seen to have the time a mine, and still wrapped in those lucky days, so delicate, narrow
band of the society around us, as I am among strangers , none of the other or knew their relations to
know its immediate wish for never would have considered possible. The beautiful autumn of 1822 with
its pleasant view, this autumn, on the Rhine enjoyed, may, however,
to this quiet serenity of the mind, to surrender any individual for
the society have contributed.

Not without reason, I believe the phenomenon to me afterwards hoechst man ascribe to have to strange
strange one. I was almost a half days in the three imperial crowns at anchor lying there, would
have not me a friend I do not seen had long years since, on the twenty-fifth or thirtieth ordered,
I would be no more remained longer, for the terrible boredom was
torture to me.

The company in the house was decent, friendly even, but cold. We let each other on the side are
little concerned about the weal or woe of the neighbor. How nice to each other the stewed fish,
roast the fine or have Saladier darzubieten knew everyone, "but the genius, I mean, the Spirit
instructed" not to belong at the table, much less from since. I saw one afternoon in my window
to the open field in front of the hotel down and thought about my claims, the people in general
and the Inn at people (which I do not understand and waiters alone) to particular host. As a traveling
carriage rattled over the cobblestones of the narrow side road and stopped just below my window.
The construction of the car threw up a tasteful elegant rule to close.

Strange as it was by the way, either on the box, even back in the convertible, a servant sat that
what really to four post-horses, the one with a carriage drawn was that which necessarily would
have fit anyway. "Perhaps a sick Lord, out of the car take the must, "I thought, and turned the eye-glass exactly
to the hand of the great stately Head Waiter, the blow opened." vacant
room?

" cried a deep, sonorous Maennerstimme. So many commands your worship, "was the reply of the
giants. A tall, slim figure slipped quickly out of the car and entered the hall." No. 12 and 13,
"said the commanding voice of the Head Waiter, and Jean and George
flew race up stairs in the.

The Wagentuere
had remained open, but still did not want to leap out second. The manager was surprised at the
car, twice he had hineingesehen while with his head shaking ever.

"Hush, Mr. head waiter, a word, "down I cried," Who was it - ""

Get the same honor of that, "replied the obliging and came soon afterwards
in my room."

A strange phenomenon, "I said to him," a heavy wagons with four horses,
and only a single master without any use.

"" Against all rules and experience, "asserted the other," very strange, very strange. However Postillon
assured that it was a good man, for he was always two dollars for
eight stations.

Maybe a Englaender by profession, all have something ordinary. ""
Do you know his name yet?

" I asked, curious as it is sent. "When the supper on the blackboard writing only," replied he;
"have something else the doctor -?"

I knew my frustration at the moment nothing, he went and left me
with my conjectures about the lonely in the eight-seat car alone.

When I went down to dinner in the evening, waiters slipped past me,
a huge slate in his hand.

He was
hardly aware of me, when he in one hand a light in the other the table, stepped in front of
me, me such presentations.

"V. Natas, Partikulier," stand down. "Did he not have any control?" I asked. "No," was the answer,
"he has adopted two Lohnlakaien that neither him nor allowed to dress out, however." When I came
into the dining room, the company had already settled, I hurried
quietly to my chair, Mr. Natas was sitting opposite of Had. this man
already attracted my curiosity, so he was now more interesting to
me, since I saw him in the vicinity.

The face was beautiful, but pale, hair, and eyes full of shiny black
beard , the white teeth, the lips often feingespaltenen unveiled vied
with the blinding white snow of the linen.

Was he old? Was he young? One could not determine it, for half the face seemed with his piquant
smile, the soft in the mouth starts looking quite like a Woelk Chen
feingebogene nose to the wanton eye runs up to, early mature, and
under the storm of passions youth to betray blooming; soon it was
believed a man of advanced years had to have the right to the toilet
to conserve a rich white studied by zealous.

There are heads, faces, only a body fit and otherwise to no other. I was not cast before that it was
Sinnestaeuschung that the eye has too much to form, as nature had
given them got used to a different mix than it could imagine.

This head has never been a stocky, corpulent body sitting on, he was the crown of a tall, slender, delicately
form only. So it was, and of thought movement of facial muscles, such as mild derision around the
mouth, deep in earnest at the high brow played in, is also expressed
in the body through the worthy, but convenient position, by the rapid,
round, almost graceful movement of the arms at all, the light, royal
decorum of the man from in.

Such was Lord of Natas, the opposite to me sat at the dinner table.

I had during the first gears leisure enough to make these comments without the interesting vis-a-vis
curious gaze difficult to fall through.

The new host by the way still seemed to cause several observations, for in the top of the dessert
table this evening were the glasses of several women in perpetual
motion, me and my neighbors they had lunch at most with the naked
eye over patterned.

It was painted onto the Director of Tafelmusik propose you went about
to collect his well deserved reward. He came to the stranger.

This threw a dollar on the small Muenzensammlung and whispered something in his ear to the surprised
collectors. With three deep bows that seemed to affirm and to promise, and walked hurriedly back
to his chapel. The new instruments have been voted in again. I was curious what could well have chosen
that, the director gave the signal, and right in the first bars I saw the beautiful Polonaise
from Osinsky. The stranger leaned back in his chair neglectful, he seemed to belong only to
the music, but soon I noticed that the dark eye the long black lashes under running about restlessly,
- it was obvious he scanned the faces of those present and the impression, the wonderful Polonaise
on it made the. Verily!

This train seemed practiced human nature to betray one. Although final would be the wrong that one
out of heat or cold to participate in the kingdom of Tones in the rougher and less susceptibility
of the mind Noble wanted to pull for and the Beautiful, yes but also even the howling dog by
the gentle tones of the flute, the horse the other hand, ears pricked for the courageous blare
of trumpets, it proudly raises his neck, and his kick is stronger and firmer. But but one could more entertaining
to see nothing but the faces of various individuals with the most beautiful places of the play,
I made the stranger my compliments about the happy choice of music, and quickly had between
us a conversation about the effect of music on this or that character . The other guests had arisen, however,
run only a few, the distance to our conversation had been listening
in, moved gradually closer.

Midnight came, without knowing how, for the stranger had us so deeply into all the relations of
men, all their inclinations and impulses can look into that, we still had to admit us, nowhere so tiefgedachte,
surprising Schluesse heard this or read about have. By this evening, we ran a new life in the
three imperial crowns. It was as if joy itself make their debut with us and celebrate now kept
their most sacred holidays, guests who might have been the never occur, longer than a night to stay
here, joined the ever-growing circle of on and forgot that There
were people among them who from all parts of the world zusammengeschneit
had the chance.

And Natas, this strange being, was the soul of the whole. It was he who, he only made his next table neighbors
had known of only once, to the maitre de plaisir by Bills. He organized parties, trips to the beautiful
area and acquired the heartfelt thanks of everyone. Had he but by the very ingenious selection of
pleasure to win all hearts, this was even more the case when he leaded the conversation. That delightful
fairy tale from the horns of Oberon seemed to have come into existence,
for the lips could Natas oeffnen only, so everyone felt at first struck
the sweetest of his heart strings, and on light wings buzzing then
the conversation around the table, the jokes were willful, Kuehner
the eyes of men, mischievous, the giggles of the ladies, and finally
speech rustled the so unfettered streams that one after a little more
of it knew when that one Goettlich have amused themselves.

And yet there was the magician who desire conjured up this far removed, depending into Rohe, hinueberzuspielen
congregation. He grabbed some object, a day's news at one, telling anecdotes, conversation played the sent
on, did deepest peculiarity to elicit each his own and delighted by his lively wit, by his warm
presentation, which by all shades of the deepest feeling of sadness and up of those eruptions of
humor touched that the most sensual, charming costumes on the fine
line of decency in flit.

Sometimes
it seemed though, it would like to have been less dangerous if he
the saint that he injures, downright derision spoken, the delicate,
he gnawed, would have almost broken, those delicate, mysterious veil,
with which he concealed or that it provoked, only for the lustful
thoughts, deep look, and the lush fantasy game won in many a head
of our beautiful women even more space but one could not be angry
with him, not contradict, his gleaming properties tore out irresistible,
enveloping her reason with sweet charm and bold hypotheses stole his
as truth in the unguarded heart.

* * * * * CHAPTER II The horrible evening. Sun had the brilliant stranger me twelve and fifteen
men and women in a mad whirl of pleasure ripped up. Almost all were without purpose in this house,
and yet dared not, the thought of the stay, even remotely imagine. Contrary, if we in the morning
long, long sleep dined at noon, evening and night long played a long drink, chatter and laughter
were in, it seemed the magic that bound us to this house, chain wrapped
around the foot to have only one new.

But it should be different, perhaps, for our salvation. On the sixth day of our joy kingdom, a Sunday,
Inn was our master of Natas in the whole not to be found. The waiter he apologized with a small trip,
he would before the sun does not come, but to tea, to the night table inevitably be there. We were
already so the is indispensable got used to that we have this message
across to enter made-it was us, might consider helping as we the wings
together and we are commanded to fly.

The conversation came as naturally to the absent and his striking, gleaming appearance. How strange
it was that I did not get the meaning out, I had him under another only figure, even once my
earlier encounters on life paths, so absurd, the idea was so compelling he pushed me again and
again. From former years ago I remembered that is, a man of his nature, mainly in looks, his great resemblance
with him had.

That was a foreign doctor, visited only now and then my home town and lived there from the beginning
always very quiet, but soon had a circle of admirers gathered around. The memory of those people was
me by the way fatal, for it was said that whenever he visited us, always a major bad luck had been
made, but I could not get rid of the idea, Natas was the largest resemblance to him, yes, it
was one and the same person. I told my table neighbors would constantly tell me pursuing ideas and
the uncomfortable comparing one to me so horrible term nature, as the stranger in my home town was in,
with our friends, the whole my respect and love had accrued as, but more incredible it sounds,
perhaps, when I assure you that my neighbors very same thoughts had to, they believed, a very different
shape our under witty shareholders have seen. "You could be an anxious made whole," said the
baroness of Things, I was sitting not far from, "They want our good
Natas at the end of the Wandering Jew, or, God knows what else to do!"

A small elderly gentleman, a professor in T., a few days, also connected to our company since
and still happy forever, here and there a little maudlin, mitlebte had during our "comparative anatomy,"
as he called quietly to himself hingelaechelt and skilful speed its oval tin between the fingers turned
with that, just like a wheel had to be considered. "I can not comment with my longer keep behind the
mountains," he finally broke loose, "if you allow, madam, I consider him not just for the Wandering
Jew, but for a very strange man.

As long as he present was wanted here and there the thought flashed into me: 'Den have you ever seen
where it was? " But as if by magic memories creeping back this if he's black, cavorting eye covered
me. "" So I was just too, - me - me also, "we all cried in astonishment." Hmm, hey, hm! " laughed
the professor. "Now it falls to me but from the eyes of the scales that it is none other than the one I've
seen twelve years ago in Stuttgart before it." "What, did you see him and in what circumstances?" asked
Mrs. eager and flushed half of Thing about the too great zeal, she
had betrayed.

The professor took a pinch, tapped from the Jabot and began: "It may now be approximately twelve
years when I due to a process several months in Stuttgart, spent. I lived in the first inns and
dined there, too habitually in large society in the host table. Once I arrived a few days in
which I room had the must beware, for the first time for dinner. They spoke very eager about
a certain Mr Barighi that some time Mittagsgaeste by his lively wit, by his skill in all languages
since enchant, all were unanimous in his praise, just about his character was not quite agree,
for the one made him a diplomat, the other to a master of language, the third in a high exiles,
others to a spy.

The door opened, it was quiet, almost embarrassed, according to the
dispute have so being held at, and I noticed that the discussed had
arrived and saw - "

"Well, I beg you! them, us" - "them, to us a few days so well for
entertaining features.

This would be just by the way anything supernatural, but you continue
to hear: two days we had Mr Barighi, called it the stranger, by his
witty conversation, the panel seasoned than we once host of the inn
interrupted: 'Gentlemen,' said the polite, 'get ready for a delicious
entertainment that tomorrow will deserve you will, before, the Lord
Chief Justice hare Results took off today and attracts one tomorrow.

'"" We asked what this meant, and an old gray captain, who for many years, the highest place
in this inn already claimed notified us with the farce:' Just opposite the dining room lived
an old bachelor, lonely one big desert in the house, he is Chief Justice out of service, lives
on a decent pension and also claims huge fortune have one. '"' The same is a complete fool and
has very own habits, such as that he himself is often large company, and goes about it afloat forever.
He lets twelve envelopes come from the tavern, the wines he has in
the basement, and one or the other of our Markoe has the honor of
serving.

You may think he has all kinds of hungry or thirsty man to himself! No way! old yellow Stammbuchblaetter,
on any one large cross, placed on the chairs, the old fellow is as comfortable as if he would be among
the funniest fellow, he talks and laughs with them, and the thing is to look at his horrible way that
always the new waiter needs to, because who nmal egg in such a supper
was one, is no longer in the deserted house.

"'The day before yesterday was another supper, and our new Franz Swear there heaven and earth, it
caused no more soul over . The next day after the feast then comes
the second peculiarity of the Chief Judicial Council.

He is leaving tomorrow early from the city and return again the next morning back, but not in his house,
this time down and locked shut is up, but here the inn .
 Whilst the king of the
Visigoths fought and vanquished in the name of Avitus, the reign of Avitus had expired; and
both the honor and the interest of Theodoric were deeply wounded by the disgrace of a friend,
whom he had seated on the throne of the Western empire.

Chapter XXXVI: Total Extinction Of The Western Empire.--Part II.

The pressing solicitations of the senate and people persuaded the emperor Avitus to fix his
residence at Rome, and to accept the consulship for the ensuing year. On the first day of January,
his son-in-law, Sidonius Apollinaris, celebrated his praises in a panegyric of six hundred
verses; but this composition, though it was rewarded with a brass statue, seems to contain
a very moderate proportion, either of genius or of truth. The poet, if we may degrade that
sacred name, exaggerates the merit of a sovereign and a father; and his prophecy of a long
and glorious reign was soon contradicted by the event. Avitus, at a time when the Imperial
dignity was reduced to a preeminence of toil and danger, indulged himself in the pleasures
of Italian luxury: age had not extinguished his amorous inclinations; and he is accused of
insulting, with indiscreet and ungenerous raillery, the husbands whose wives he had seduced
or violated. But the Romans were not inclined either to excuse his faults or to acknowledge
his virtues. The several parts of the empire became every day more alienated from each other;
and the stranger of Gaul was the object of popular hatred and contempt. The senate asserted
their legitimate claim in the election of an emperor; and their authority, which had been originally
derived from the old constitution, was again fortified by the actual weakness of a declining
monarchy. Yet even such a monarchy might have resisted the votes of an unarmed senate, if their
discontent had not been supported, or perhaps inflamed, by the Count Ricimer, one of the principal
commanders of the Barbarian troops, who formed the military defence of Italy. The daughter
of Wallia, king of the Visigoths, was the mother of Ricimer; but he was descended, on the father's
side, from the nation of the Suevi; his pride or patriotism might be exasperated by the misfortunes
of his countrymen; and he obeyed, with reluctance, an emperor in whose elevation he had not
been consulted. His faithful and important services against the common enemy rendered him still
more formidable; and, after destroying on the coast of Corsica a fleet of Vandals, which consisted
of sixty galleys, Ricimer returned in triumph with the appellation of the Deliverer of Italy.
He chose that moment to signify to Avitus, that his reign was at an end; and the feeble emperor,
at a distance from his Gothic allies, was compelled, after a short and unavailing struggle
to abdicate the purple. By the clemency, however, or the contempt, of Ricimer, he was permitted
to descend from the throne to the more desirable station of bishop of Placentia: but the resentment
of the senate was still unsatisfied; and their inflexible severity pronounced the sentence
of his death He fled towards the Alps, with the humble hope, not of arming the Visigoths in
his cause, but of securing his person and treasures in the sanctuary of Julian, one of the
tutelar saints of Auvergne. Disease, or the hand of the executioner, arrested him on the road;
yet his remains were decently transported to Brivas, or Brioude, in his native province, and
he reposed at the feet of his holy patron. Avitus left only one daughter, the wife of Sidonius
Apollinaris, who inherited the patrimony of his father-in-law; lamenting, at the same time,
the disappointment of his public and private expectations. His resentment prompted him to join,
or at least to countenance, the measures of a rebellious faction in Gaul; and the poet had
contracted some guilt, which it was incumbent on him to expiate, by a new tribute of flattery
to the succeeding emperor.

The successor of Avitus presents the welcome discovery of a great and heroic character, such
as sometimes arise, in a degenerate age, to vindicate the honor of the human species. The emperor
Majorian has deserved the praises of his contemporaries, and of posterity; and these praises
may be strongly expressed in the words of a judicious and disinterested historian: "That he
was gentle to his subjects; that he was terrible to his enemies; and that he excelled, in every
virtue, all his predecessors who had reigned over the Romans." Such a testimony may justify
at least the panegyric of Sidonius; and we may acquiesce in the assurance, that, although the
obsequious orator would have flattered, with equal zeal, the most worthless of princes, the
extraordinary merit of his object confined him, on this occasion, within the bounds of truth.
Majorian derived his name from his maternal grandfather, who, in the reign of the great Theodosius,
had commanded the troops of the Illyrian frontier. He gave his daughter in marriage to the
father of Majorian, a respectable officer, who administered the revenues of Gaul with skill
and integrity; and generously preferred the friendship of Ætius to the tempting offer of an
insidious court. His son, the future emperor, who was educated in the profession of arms, displayed,
from his early youth, intrepid courage, premature wisdom, and unbounded liberality in a scanty
fortune. He followed the standard of Ætius, contributed to his success, shared, and sometimes
eclipsed, his glory, and at last excited the jealousy of the patrician, or rather of his wife,
who forced him to retire from the service. Majorian, after the death of Ætius, was recalled
and promoted; and his intimate connection with Count Ricimer was the immediate step by which
he ascended the throne of the Western empire. During the vacancy that succeeded the abdication
of Avitus, the ambitious Barbarian, whose birth excluded him from the Imperial dignity, governed
Italy with the title of Patrician; resigned to his friend the conspicuous station of master-general
of the cavalry and infantry; and, after an interval of some months, consented to the unanimous
wish of the Romans, whose favor Majorian had solicited by a recent victory over the Alemanni.
He was invested with the purple at Ravenna: and the epistle which he addressed to the senate,
will best describe his situation and his sentiments. "Your election, Conscript Fathers! and
the ordinance of the most valiant army, have made me your emperor. May the propitious Deity
direct and prosper the counsels and events of my administration, to your advantage and to the
public welfare! For my own part, I did not aspire, I have submitted to reign; nor should I
have discharged the obligations of a citizen if I had refused, with base and selfish ingratitude,
to support the weight of those labors, which were imposed by the republic. Assist, therefore,
the prince whom you have made; partake the duties which you have enjoined; and may our common
endeavors promote the happiness of an empire, which I have accepted from your hands. Be assured,
that, in our times, justice shall resume her ancient vigor, and that virtue shall become, not
only innocent, but meritorious. Let none, except the authors themselves, be apprehensive of
delations, which, as a subject, I have always condemned, and, as a prince, will severely punish.
Our own vigilance, and that of our father, the patrician Ricimer, shall regulate all military
affairs, and provide for the safety of the Roman world, which we have saved from foreign and
domestic enemies. You now understand the maxims of my government; you may confide in the faithful
love and sincere assurances of a prince who has formerly been the companion of your life and
dangers; who still glories in the name of senator, and who is anxious that you should never
repent the judgment which you have pronounced in his favor." The emperor, who, amidst the ruins
of the Roman world, revived the ancient language of law and liberty, which Trajan would not
have disclaimed, must have derived those generous sentiments from his own heart; since they
were not suggested to his imitation by the customs of his age, or the example of his predecessors.

The private and public actions of Majorian are very imperfectly known: but his laws, remarkable
for an original cast of thought and expression, faithfully represent the character of a sovereign
who loved his people, who sympathized in their distress, who had studied the causes of the
decline of the empire, and who was capable of applying (as far as such reformation was practicable)
judicious and effectual remedies to the public disorders. His regulations concerning the finances
manifestly tended to remove, or at least to mitigate, the most intolerable grievances. I. From
the first hour of his reign, he was solicitous (I translate his own words) to relieve the weary
fortunes of the provincials, oppressed by the accumulated weight of indictions and superindictions.
With this view he granted a universal amnesty, a final and absolute discharge of all arrears
of tribute, of all debts, which, under any pretence, the fiscal officers might demand from
the people. This wise dereliction of obsolete, vexatious, and unprofitable claims, improved
and purified the sources of the public revenue; and the subject who could now look back without
despair, might labor with hope and gratitude for himself and for his country. II. In the assessment
and collection of taxes, Majorian restored the ordinary jurisdiction of the provincial magistrates;
and suppressed the extraordinary commissions which had been introduced, in the name of the
emperor himself, or of the Prætorian præfects. The favorite servants, who obtained such irregular
powers, were insolent in their behavior, and arbitrary in their demands: they affected to despise
the subordinate tribunals, and they were discontented, if their fees and profits did not twice
exceed the sum which they condescended to pay into the treasury. One instance of their extortion
would appear incredible, were it not authenticated by the legislator himself. They exacted
the whole payment in gold: but they refused the current coin of the empire, and would accept
only such ancient pieces as were stamped with the names of Faustina or the Antonines. The subject,
who was unprovided with these curious medals, had recourse to the expedient of compounding
with their rapacious demands; or if he succeeded in the research, his imposition was doubled,
according to the weight and value of the money of former times. III. "The municipal corporations,
(says the emperor,) the lesser senates, (so antiquity has justly styled them,) deserve to be
considered as the heart of the cities, and the sinews of the republic. And yet so low are they
now reduced, by the injustice of magistrates and the venality of collectors, that many of their
members, renouncing their dignity and their country, have taken refuge in distant and obscure
exile." He urges, and even compels, their return to their respective cities; but he removes
the grievance which had forced them to desert the exercise of their municipal functions. They
are directed, under the authority of the provincial magistrates, to resume their office of
levying the tribute; but, instead of being made responsible for the whole sum assessed on their
district, they are only required to produce a regular account of the payments which they have
actually received, and of the defaulters who are still indebted to the public. IV. But Majorian
was not ignorant that these corporate bodies were too much inclined to retaliate the injustice
and oppression which they had suffered; and he therefore revives the useful office of the defenders
of cities. He exhorts the people to elect, in a full and free assembly, some man of discretion
and integrity, who would dare to assert their privileges, to represent their grievances, to
protect the poor from the tyranny of the rich, and to inform the emperor of the abuses that
were committed under the sanction of his name and authority.

The spectator who casts a mournful view over the ruins of ancient Rome, is tempted to accuse
the memory of the Goths and Vandals, for the mischief which they had neither leisure, nor power,
nor perhaps inclination, to perpetrate. The tempest of war might strike some lofty turrets
to the ground; but the destruction which undermined the foundations of those massy fabrics
was prosecuted, slowly and silently, during a period of ten centuries; and the motives of interest,
that afterwards operated without shame or control, were severely checked by the taste and spirit
of the emperor Majorian. The decay of the city had gradually impaired the value of the public
works. The circus and theatres might still excite, but they seldom gratified, the desires of
the people: the temples, which had escaped the zeal of the Christians, were no longer inhabited,
either by gods or men; the diminished crowds of the Romans were lost in the immense space of
their baths and porticos; and the stately libraries and halls of justice became useless to
an indolent generation, whose repose was seldom disturbed, either by study or business. The
monuments of consular, or Imperial, greatness were no longer revered, as the immortal glory
of the capital: they were only esteemed as an inexhaustible mine of materials, cheaper, and
more convenient than the distant quarry. Specious petitions were continually addressed to the
easy magistrates of Rome, which stated the want of stones or bricks, for some necessary service:
the fairest forms of architecture were rudely defaced, for the sake of some paltry, or pretended,
repairs; and the degenerate Romans, who converted the spoil to their own emolument, demolished,
with sacrilegious hands, the labors of their ancestors. Majorian, who had often sighed over
the desolation of the city, applied a severe remedy to the growing evil. He reserved to the
prince and senate the sole cognizance of the extreme cases which might justify the destruction
of an ancient edifice; imposed a fine of fifty pounds of gold (two thousand pounds sterling)
on every magistrate who should presume to grant such illegal and scandalous license, and threatened
to chastise the criminal obedience of their subordinate officers, by a severe whipping, and
the amputation of both their hands. In the last instance, the legislator might seem to forget
the proportion of guilt and punishment; but his zeal arose from a generous principle, and Majorian
was anxious to protect the monuments of those ages, in which he would have desired and deserved
to live. The emperor conceived, that it was his interest to increase the number of his subjects;
and that it was his duty to guard the purity of the marriage-bed: but the means which he employed
to accomplish these salutary purposes are of an ambiguous, and perhaps exceptionable, kind.
The pious maids, who consecrated their virginity to Christ, were restrained from taking the
veil till they had reached their fortieth year. Widows under that age were compelled to form
a second alliance within the term of five years, by the forfeiture of half their wealth to
their nearest relations, or to the state. Unequal marriages were condemned or annulled. The
punishment of confiscation and exile was deemed so inadequate to the guilt of adultery, that,
if the criminal returned to Italy, he might, by the express declaration of Majorian, be slain
with impunity.

While the emperor Majorian assiduously labored to restore the happiness and virtue of the Romans,
he encountered the arms of Genseric, from his character and situation their most formidable
enemy. A fleet of Vandals and Moors landed at the mouth of the Liris, or Garigliano; but the
Imperial troops surprised and attacked the disorderly Barbarians, who were encumbered with
the spoils of Campania; they were chased with slaughter to their ships, and their leader, the
king's brother-in-law, was found in the number of the slain. Such vigilance might announce
the character of the new reign; but the strictest vigilance, and the most numerous forces,
were insufficient to protect the long-extended coast of Italy from the depredations of a naval
war. The public opinion had imposed a nobler and more arduous task on the genius of Majorian.
Rome expected from him alone the restitution of Africa; and the design, which he formed, of
attacking the Vandals in their new settlements, was the result of bold and judicious policy.
If the intrepid emperor could have infused his own spirit into the youth of Italy; if he could
have revived in the field of Mars, the manly exercises in which he had always surpassed his
equals; he might have marched against Genseric at the head of a Roman army. Such a reformation
of national manners might be embraced by the rising generation; but it is the misfortune of
those princes who laboriously sustain a declining monarchy, that, to obtain some immediate
advantage, or to avert some impending danger, they are forced to countenance, and even to multiply,
the most pernicious abuses. Majorian, like the weakest of his predecessors, was reduced to
the disgraceful expedient of substituting Barbarian auxiliaries in the place of his unwarlike
subjects: and his superior abilities could only be displayed in the vigor and dexterity with
which he wielded a dangerous instrument, so apt to recoil on the hand that used it. Besides
the confederates, who were already engaged in the service of the empire, the fame of his liberality
and valor attracted the nations of the Danube, the Borysthenes, and perhaps of the Tanais.
Many thousands of the bravest subjects of Attila, the Gepidæ, the Ostrogoths, the Rugians,
the Burgundians, the Suevi, the Alani, assembled in the plains of Liguria; and their formidable
strength was balanced by their mutual animosities. They passed the Alps in a severe winter.
The emperor led the way, on foot, and in complete armor; sounding, with his long staff, the
depth of the ice, or snow, and encouraging the Scythians, who complained of the extreme cold,
by the cheerful assurance, that they should be satisfied with the heat of Africa. The citizens
of Lyons had presumed to shut their gates; they soon implored, and experienced, the clemency
of Majorian. He vanquished Theodoric in the field; and admitted to his friendship and alliance
a king whom he had found not unworthy of his arms. The beneficial, though precarious, reunion
of the greater part of Gaul and Spain, was the effect of persuasion, as well as of force; and
the independent Bagaudæ, who had escaped, or resisted, the oppression, of former reigns, were
disposed to confide in the virtues of Majorian. His camp was filled with Barbarian allies;
his throne was supported by the zeal of an affectionate people; but the emperor had foreseen,
that it was impossible, without a maritime power, to achieve the conquest of Africa. In the
first Punic war, the republic had exerted such incredible diligence, that, within sixty days
after the first stroke of the axe had been given in the forest, a fleet of one hundred and
sixty galleys proudly rode at anchor in the sea. Under circumstances much less favorable, Majorian
equalled the spirit and perseverance of the ancient Romans. The woods of the Apennine were
felled; the arsenals and manufactures of Ravenna and Misenum were restored; Italy and Gaul
vied with each other in liberal contributions to the public service; and the Imperial navy
of three hundred large galleys, with an adequate proportion of transports and smaller vessels,
was collected in the secure and capacious harbor of Carthagena in Spain. The intrepid countenance
of Majorian animated his troops with a confidence of victory; and, if we might credit the historian
Procopius, his courage sometimes hurried him beyond the bounds of prudence. Anxious to explore,
with his own eyes, the state of the Vandals, he ventured, after disguising the color of his
hair, to visit Carthage, in the character of his own ambassador: and Genseric was afterwards
mortified by the discovery, that he had entertained and dismissed the emperor of the Romans.
Such an anecdote may be rejected as an improbable fiction; but it is a fiction which would
not have been imagined, unless in the life of a hero.

Chapter XXXVI: Total Extinction Of The Western Empire.--Part III.

Without the help of a personal interview, Genseric was sufficiently acquainted with the genius
and designs of his adversary. He practiced his customary arts of fraud and delay, but he practiced
them without success. His applications for peace became each hour more submissive, and perhaps
more sincere; but the inflexible Majorian had adopted the ancient maxim, that Rome could not
be safe, as long as Carthage existed in a hostile state. The king of the Vandals distrusted
the valor of his native subjects, who were enervated by the luxury of the South; he suspected
the fidelity of the vanquished people, who abhorred him as an Arian tyrant; and the desperate
measure, which he executed, of reducing Mauritania into a desert, could not defeat the operations
of the Roman emperor, who was at liberty to land his troops on any part of the African coast.
But Genseric was saved from impending and inevitable ruin by the treachery of some powerful
subjects, envious, or apprehensive, of their master's success. Guided by their secret intelligence,
he surprised the unguarded fleet in the Bay of Carthagena: many of the ships were sunk, or
taken, or burnt; and the preparations of three years were destroyed in a single day. After
this event, the behavior of the two antagonists showed them superior to their fortune. The
Vandal, instead of being elated by this accidental victory, immediately renewed his solicitations
for peace. The emperor of the West, who was capable of forming great designs, and of supporting
heavy disappointments, consented to a treaty, or rather to a suspension of arms; in the full
assurance that, before he could restore his navy, he should be supplied with provocations to
justify a second war. Majorian returned to Italy, to prosecute his labors for the public happiness;
and, as he was conscious of his own integrity, he might long remain ignorant of the dark conspiracy
which threatened his throne and his life. The recent misfortune of Carthagena sullied the glory
which had dazzled the eyes of the multitude; almost every description of civil and military
officers were exasperated against the Reformer, since they all derived some advantage from
the abuses which he endeavored to suppress; and the patrician Ricimer impelled the inconstant
passions of the Barbarians against a prince whom he esteemed and hated. The virtues of Majorian
could not protect him from the impetuous sedition, which broke out in the camp near Tortona,
at the foot of the Alps. He was compelled to abdicate the Imperial purple: five days after
his abdication, it was reported that he died of a dysentery; and the humble tomb, which covered
his remains, was consecrated by the respect and gratitude of succeeding generations. The private
character of Majorian inspired love and respect. Malicious calumny and satire excited his indignation,
or, if he himself were the object, his contempt; but he protected the freedom of wit, and,
in the hours which the emperor gave to the familiar society of his friends, he could indulge
his taste for pleasantry, without degrading the majesty of his rank.

It was not, perhaps, without some regret, that Ricimer sacrificed his friend to the interest
of his ambition: but he resolved, in a second choice, to avoid the imprudent preference of
superior virtue and merit. At his command, the obsequious senate of Rome bestowed the Imperial
title on Libius Severus, who ascended the throne of the West without emerging from the obscurity
of a private condition. History has scarcely deigned to notice his birth, his elevation, his
character, or his death. Severus expired, as soon as his life became inconvenient to his patron;
and it would be useless to discriminate his nominal reign in the vacant interval of six years,
between the death of Majorian and the elevation of Anthemius. During that period, the government
was in the hands of Ricimer alone; and, although the modest Barbarian disclaimed the name of
king, he accumulated treasures, formed a separate army, negotiated private alliances, and ruled
Italy with the same independent and despotic authority, which was afterwards exercised by Odoacer
and Theodoric. But his dominions were bounded by the Alps; and two Roman generals, Marcellinus
and Ægidius, maintained their allegiance to the republic, by rejecting, with disdain, the phantom
which he styled an emperor. Marcellinus still adhered to the old religion; and the devout Pagans,
who secretly disobeyed the laws of the church and state, applauded his profound skill in the
science of divination. But he possessed the more valuable qualifications of learning, virtue,
and courage; the study of the Latin literature had improved his taste; and his military talents
had recommended him to the esteem and confidence of the great Ætius, in whose ruin he was involved.
By a timely flight, Marcellinus escaped the rage of Valentinian, and boldly asserted his liberty
amidst the convulsions of the Western empire. He had promised to Truebenau with Kammermaedchen
to watch women in, but, dear God, slept he must have like a badger, because we knocked three
or four times until it we reply, and the Chamber cat was longer not to awaken. "" Well, he let
the beautiful Rosalie to bleed?

""

No, he has her, as I said Lizzie, mustard plaster heart laid on the two hand's breadth, that it should
have been soon. "" Poor Professor!

" I thought, "your pretty roses with sixteen more years and this Natas in intimate stillness of the night,
a patch to the beating heart pappend." "The Lord Ökonomierat Papa
was very probably affected by the story?"

I asked, to about the matter to get into the clear. "It did not, for he was asleep, before the deer's
spirit from the pharmacy back Liza.

But it rings on the second floor, and I shall. "He's said, and flew an arrow like this. This society
was at once the funny scattered, and yet I did not know how these things come could suddenly become
so.

I remembered though, that yesterday the punch was a strange thing happened when, but what might
have been there, I could not remember. If Natas digestion can give me? "But when I reflected right,
with Natas was something happened.

The professor hesitated about in my memory - most seemed to me to go to him and Natas cause of the rapid departure
to ask about the. I threw myself into my clothes, and before I even finished with the short
toilet was completely brought me a Lohnlakai following note: "Ew.

Honour drop me connect infinite when you before my departure from here, the lunch on the set is,
I once wanted to visit yet. v. Natas.

"Curious, I followed this call and met his friend between suitcases and boxes are ready. He came
forward with his winning kindness, but I was embarrassed by a train
unmistakable irony, played around his mouth today and I never otherwise
remarks had him.

He laughed at me that I used the ladies as weak drinker identified and before a hair-bag I strapped
myself, told me that I was asleep happy, and asked me with a watchful look, what I from last night yet know.
I told him confused memories mean, he laughed at it warmly, calling
them figments of a diseased imagination.

The departure of the entire society, he gave a big fall celebration fault, which kept going Worms. They
were all, even the morose Ökonomierat, there traveled, but him calling his shops down the Rhine.
Truebenau The chances of the mass and the beautiful Rosalie he strong
punch, and was pleased with him, just a hobby to have so many medical
knowledge through to small accidents can help with such.

We heard its car drive up, the waiter announced this and brought by the grateful Hotel a bottle of the
most ancient Rhine wine.

Natas they had earned, for verily, he alone we had so long tied here. "You're a writer, Doctor?"
he asked me while we narcotic fragrant farewell drink ausschluerften
him.

"blunders Those who do not now anything in the literature?" I replied. "I have earlier poet tries as, but
I soon saw one enough that I do not for immortality sing of.

I therefore took Toene some deep and undying, translated works of foreign nations for the love
German public. "He praised my humble resignation, as he called it, and asked me if I could bring myself,
the memoirs of a famous man, which now are available only in manuscript
until translate to?

"Provided you can decipher that, it's an easy job for you, I would give the keys to you and the
manuscript is written in high German." I showed myself, as of course, very willing to do so.
deciphering understood and I hoped it earlier with a little practice
to get perfectly.

He concluded nice box of red morocco on one and handed me a manuscript often tied together. The
signs I crawled around in front of the eye, like ants in their Huegelchen
disturbed, but he gave me the keys his secret, and the work seemed
to me again so easily.

We embraced and said goodbye to us. In warm thanks for his mercy, which he still had modified for
me, for the beautiful days he accompanied us had prepared, I do the car. The Wagentuere closed, the
coachman struck on his four horses, she moved on, and the interesting phenomenon flew from hence,
but from the interior of the car I thought I laugh to hear that hoarse,
I did yesterday here in the preserved fragments of my memory.

When I went up the stairs, the waiter handed me a letter one. The professor
gave him such a hands on ordered handed over to my own, I ripped it -
"My dear, esteemed," I am, my horse to board term in the cave and
the roaring lions to escape from it.

I am writing to tell you goodbye, because you deathlike of anesthesia, the tougher you are
all affected, as has not awaken from. The fact that our beautiful
together had the horrible like that!

Not
true, dear skeptic, now you have it clear that this is nothing but the Natas Satan incarnate
was another matter, "He looks over his shoulder, perhaps at this moment and read the what I
say but I will not be silent. The poor Ökonomierat and his daughter, the pale Truebenau, my beautiful
Things, the captain and the chief forester, he has in his network. God grant that he is not lured has
you. me he has half and half, for I have deep eingebissen too in
his with chemical ideas studded Angel.

I tear me go and do that I get away. "Adieu, my dear! Monday, 7 October, early 6th clock. "Now, my
memories came back in droves. Yes, it was the devil, who had played his game with us, it was
the devil, the fun it had been yesterday, frighten us, and it had the Devil his memoirs, which
I was holding in his hand. If I had but to it that these writings do not through the eyes and
the brain hinaufkrochen made me mad, and I could not just by the
fact that I and the Dechiffreur Dekopisten Satan made of, unconsciously
his servitude add annotations in?

I hand
packed in my suitcase and traveled professor after, to ask him for advice. But in Worms I found
no trace of any of the merry company in the three imperial crowns.

They either Satan has obtained the and In his eight-seat car in his
eternal kingdom gehaudert, or he has sent me the April.

The latter seemed more likely. In Worms, however, I met a pious clergyman, was appointed to the Cathedral.
I told him in front of my case and received the decision, I was measuring about it read, many as if
the manuscript contains arc. The Council did not seem amiss. I went into my home and sent on
the next Sunday, the first Satan arch into the church. Probatum est, and on Monday I began to decipher
and do not have the least of Absolute and neither the paper nor I
noticed on.

From my colleagues in Mainz, however, I have heard little more. The professor continues, discoveries
in chemistry by its gleaming, and I'm afraid he's on ways to give, Satan heard him make a will. erzelius
B to the captain should have shot the one woman of Things, however, the beautiful widow, a display
in the Hamburg correspondents not long since married again after. * * * * * THE STUDY OF SATAN TO THE
FAMOUS UNIVERSITY ...... EN. "deceiver deceived! Your rings are all
no better than three!

The real
ring was probably lost. "Lessing, Nathan. III.

7 CHAPTER. Introductory remarks. All the world reads or writes memoir at this time, in the salons
of the big and small residences, and the resources and casinos Mittelstaedt, in tabagi and the
bars of the small talk of memoirs judges, according to memoirs and
tells memoirs, yes, it could seem, was for years nothing more remarkable
in the world than their twelve memoirs. men and women take it up the
pen to the people demonstrate in writing that they lived in a strange
time, that they also have a once in Sonnennaehe moved to the other
person an aura of inconsistency, perhaps given their significance.

Crowned heads not satisfied, from its former grandeur, where, as in the picture booklet, with the crown
on her head to bed went, brought to, not satisfied with the fact that they courier travel Europe
from one end to the other fly through on to each other to insure
their friendship, memoir writing for their peoples, tell them their
fortunes, their trips.

The contemporary world has been made for posterity, one has her a new standard that they judge
the actions, given in the hands, these are the memoirs. Great generals, famous marshals, far
from imitating the example of that Romer, which the leisure of peace under his leadership the
legions of worthy posterity to continue this tradition of thought
in action, when he spoke of himself only ever shall say, in the third
person, have the more modest taken away, speak of how it is proper
so serious men, when I build from their memoirs Odeon in a reduced
scale, and enter heartily on the front of the stage.

With
Schlachtstuecken on a large scale, they decorate the scenes, famous statesmen and women, the
great army and its laurel-crowned eagle, the whole world around them are in the background of
supernumeraries as they play themselves but their Sulla or Brutus, worthy immortal Talma. Mundus
vult of decipiens, that is, people read memoirs, from what holds me, the same also such a court
"welcomed as" vorzusetzen? You turn a maybe: "The cobbler stick to his last, Satan did not write
memoirs to leave."

Ei! really? And if this Satan but professional would have one, memoirs world to spread to, if he so
much more seen would have, or at least as those military diplomats or diplomatic warrior, what
a world with its literary glory fill the after the bulletins of their victories to have ceased to mention,
what if this poor devil did feel an urge to be in, even for a homo literatus apply to? Yes, I confess to
blushing, the longer me in my wanderings I love Germany, the more
irresistible it pulls me back to writers; and if the women is allowed,
with ink to dirty fingers, it is still the devil still be allowed,
too?

And this brings me to another point, one may say against my literary
attempts, I was not a literatus, no man of companies & c. For now,
I have just the ladies who, if they have so learned, no scholar by
profession are yet to mention had the honor, then I appeal to those
sons of the camp, the dangers become large, under strain in gray,
no had time to study humanities, and so gleaming write memoirs yet,
I assert, thirdly, that the prejudice that I was a unstudierter devil,
is quite wrong, for I am optima forma doctor of philosophy became
in, as can be seen from my memoirs, and the award may have on black
and white.

The Archangel Gabriel, when I saw him with the plan to develop my
memoirs, made known, warned me with a thoughtful expression before
the so-called reviewers.

He gave me to understand, that I could get away unlearnedly by no one save those now even doctors of
theology in Berlin, Halle and Leipzig have taken even so hard.

I replied, not without learning that the adage "clericus clericum
non Decimate" is also my relationship to the reviewer to be applied
justly can, I will already in the Old Testament but S atan, adversarius,
the adversary is called, which is also quite to that passe, but I
take the most striking evidence from the New Testament, where I will
diabolos or detractors called, as much as now diaballein acerbe recense,
so he should beat if he had only a little logic, by itself can draw
the conclusion.

The archangel was, as of course, not a little respect for my learning
in language and thought itself, that I'm not missing this kind of
skill.

One is reading through these messages from my memoirs, maybe not that systematic, peaceful progression
of speech found in the the works of deep-thinking minds his own cares so. It is and longer fragments
from my workings and goings on the earth are shorter and lacks the inner coherence. One can not blame
me, so it was not my intention;, a painting of this time to design, you find enough of them in all solid
bookshops in Germany. The memoir writer has a purpose achieved when he and his position at the time, to which
he belongs, is and about it reflects when he developed events that either him or the world around or
distant relationship have around when he's contemporaries and his
relation to the eye presents them famous.

And demands do this in satisfied to have me memoirs think they are there at least that in my work led me
to my boldness before me to justify, in an esteemed audience writers act as. [Footnote: What
the devil here seriously and taught speaks , it behaves almost like a young candidate of theology,
the first print his sermon can be! Editor's note.] On personality, about famous descent or relationship,
the gleaming devil nothing to say. What could be about to say about it, I have the "visit with Goethe"
is pronounced in and therefore refer the reader there.

Diligent readers, ie those that bow for bow in a quarter of fly over, may therefore not skip this
section because he is a better understanding of the others set up very, modest and ordinary readers, I have
nothing to say about this as: they should put down the book when they are bored. * * * * * Before
his servant with the second arc of the show comes back, nor has the time, some comments einzuflicken
undersigned. It seems to him namely, Satan possesses a considerable dose of vanity, you notice
just how important he speaks of that section, in which he makes remarks about some, it would be enough, would
have been if he only hinted that this or that is to was found, but to recommend to the reader, he
would like but a section, which are included in those, not the selection
bar is very arrogant.

Then the
disorder, in which he makes everything! Another, such as the editor would have, but, if not with the
birth certificate, what now of course the devil is probably not possible,
at least, the incident started, the chronology of the first is after.

I have leafed through the manuscript transient (read before each slur sufficiently dedicated, I'll take me well in
eight), and found that he prefixed by events, which all belong to
the new time, and afterwards in a colorful mixture of ten people and
their deeds , can occur years twenty, one sees well that they have
good school had no need.

For greater clarity, and that, gentle reader, despite the devil can choose what he wants, I have
provided the contents of each chapter. T he H ublisher r. * * * * * CHAPTER VI. As the University of Satan
and what involves the acquaintances he makes there. Germany has always been particularly pleasing to
me of, and I confess that it is a less selfish basis of this confession, namely one believes
there of me as the gospel, those bold philosophical daredevils, the
risk on that I'm taking to deny and existence me at ridiculous phantom
made have a mean, is it not yet been possible, children sense these
people to destroy the lucky in whose unclouded imagination I still
black as a Moor, with horns and claws, and tail with goat-footed survive
for as their ancestors have known me.

If other nations are so-called Enlightenment, as far hinaufgeschraubt by that, I say nothing of a God,
no longer believe even the devil, so take care here among this people, even my traditional enemies,
the theologians to it that I stay in prestige.

Hand in hand with belief in the divinity of walks in them the belief in me, and how often I have
to me so sweet heard the word from their mouths: "Anathema, sit erglaubtankeinen l. T cries" I can
therefore quite annoyed me that I earlier on the rational thoughts
come'm not currently at a university to spend free my to see there,
as I am of the semester systematically mistreated semester of. I could
incidentally still benefit many. The whole world now is civilized,
delicate, mannered, well read, taught. Many times, if I make imaginary
good cut one, it was found that me a good school bag, a little philosophy,
ancient literature, and even some medicine lacks even, but as magnetizing
came up, I also have a Messmer course taken during and after treatment
glueckliche made some.

But that is not now done, so the miserable expressions, which Germany are circulating in: eindummer
T eu fel, T eufel armed, einunwissender T eufel what on neglected science education point
to my manifest. It is still a scholar from the sky like no, and I've fallen from heaven, but not
as taught, so I decided that I wanted to study philosophy and perhaps as much to bring it in, that
I would invent an entirely new system, of which I promised myself no small success. I chose ----- s and
moved in the fall of 1819 on there. I had, as you can imagine, not failed me accorded pursuant to
my new costume. My name was on B arbe, shiny my circumstances, the is, I brought a big change
with, had a lot of cash money, good clothes and kept myself well, as a newcomer, or, as they say,
act as a fox, but I had already studied all sides, I looked around in the world. No wonder that
I first evening polite companion, the next morning already familiar
friends and brothers on the second evening of life and death had on
the arm.

 The strength and sharpness of the first impression are blunted
by delay; the health and spirit of the troops insensibly languish in a distant climate; the
naval and military force, a mighty effort which perhaps can never be repeated, is silently
consumed; and every hour that is wasted in negotiation, accustoms the enemy to contemplate
and examine those hostile terrors, which, on their first appearance, he deemed irresistible.
The formidable navy of Basiliscus pursued its prosperous navigation from the Thracian Bosphorus
to the coast of Africa. He landed his troops at Cape Bona, or the promontory of Mercury, about
forty miles from Carthage. The army of Heraclius, and the fleet of Marcellinus, either joined
or seconded the Imperial lieutenant; and the Vandals who opposed his progress by sea or land,
were successively vanquished. If Basiliscus had seized the moment of consternation, and boldly
advanced to the capital, Carthage must have surrendered, and the kingdom of the Vandals was
extinguished. Genseric beheld the danger with firmness, and eluded it with his veteran dexterity.
He protested, in the most respectful language, that he was ready to submit his person, and
his dominions, to the will of the emperor; but he requested a truce of five days to regulate
the terms of his submission; and it was universally believed, that his secret liberality contributed
to the success of this public negotiation. Instead of obstinately refusing whatever indulgence
his enemy so earnestly solicited, the guilty, or the credulous, Basiliscus consented to the
fatal truce; and his imprudent security seemed to proclaim, that he already considered himself
as the conqueror of Africa. During this short interval, the wind became favorable to the designs
of Genseric. He manned his largest ships of war with the bravest of the Moors and Vandals;
and they towed after them many large barks, filled with combustible materials. In the obscurity
of the night, these destructive vessels were impelled against the unguarded and unsuspecting
fleet of the Romans, who were awakened by the sense of their instant danger. Their close and
crowded order assisted the progress of the fire, which was communicated with rapid and irresistible
violence; and the noise of the wind, the crackling of the flames, the dissonant cries of the
soldiers and mariners, who could neither command nor obey, increased the horror of the nocturnal
tumult. Whilst they labored to extricate themselves from the fire-ships, and to save at least
a part of the navy, the galleys of Genseric assaulted them with temperate and disciplined valor;
and many of the Romans, who escaped the fury of the flames, were destroyed or taken by the
victorious Vandals. Among the events of that disastrous night, the heroic, or rather desperate,
courage of John, one of the principal officers of Basiliscus, has rescued his name from oblivion.
When the ship, which he had bravely defended, was almost consumed, he threw himself in his
armor into the sea, disdainfully rejected the esteem and pity of Genso, the son of Genseric,
who pressed him to accept honorable quarter, and sunk under the waves; exclaiming, with his
last breath, that he would never fall alive into the hands of those impious dogs. Actuated
by a far different spirit, Basiliscus, whose station was the most remote from danger, disgracefully
fled in the beginning of the engagement, returned to Constantinople with the loss of more than
half of his fleet and army, and sheltered his guilty head in the sanctuary of St. Sophia, till
his sister, by her tears and entreaties, could obtain his pardon from the indignant emperor.
Heraclius effected his retreat through the desert; Marcellinus retired to Sicily, where he
was assassinated, perhaps at the instigation of Ricimer, by one of his own captains; and the
king of the Vandals expressed his surprise and satisfaction, that the Romans themselves should
remove from the world his most formidable antagonists.

During his long and active reign, the African monarch had studiously cultivated the friendship
of the Barbarians of Europe, whose arms he might employ in a seasonable and effectual diversion
against the two empires. After the death of Attila, he renewed his alliance with the Visigoths
of Gaul; and the sons of the elder Theodoric, who successively reigned over that warlike nation,
were easily persuaded, by the sense of interest, to forget the cruel affront which Genseric
had inflicted on their sister. The death of the emperor Majorian delivered Theodoric the Second
from the restraint of fear, and perhaps of honor; he violated his recent treaty with the Romans;
and the ample territory of Narbonne, which he firmly united to his dominions, became the immediate
reward of his perfidy. The selfish policy of Ricimer encouraged him to invade the provinces
which were in the possession of Ægidius, his rival; but the active count, by the defence of
Arles, and the victory of Orleans, saved Gaul, and checked, during his lifetime, the progress
of the Visigoths. Their ambition was soon rekindled; and the design of extinguishing the Roman
empire in Spain and Gaul was conceived, and almost completed, in the reign of Euric, who assassinated
his brother Theodoric, and displayed, with a more savage temper, superior abilities, both in
peace and war. He passed the Pyrenees at the head of a numerous army, subdued the cities of
Saragossa and Pampeluna, vanquished in battle the martial nobles of the Tarragonese province,
carried his victorious arms into the heart of Lusitania, and permitted the Suevi to hold the
kingdom of Gallicia under the Gothic monarchy of Spain. The efforts of Euric were not less
vigorous, or less successful, in Gaul; and throughout the country that extends from the Pyrenees
to the Rhone and the Loire, Berry and Auvergne were the only cities, or dioceses, which refused
to acknowledge him as their master. In the defence of Clermont, their principal town, the inhabitants
of Auvergne sustained, with inflexible resolution, the miseries of war, pestilence, and famine;
and the Visigoths, relinquishing the fruitless siege, suspended the hopes of that important
conquest. The youth of the province were animated by the heroic, and almost incredible, valor
of Ecdicius, the son of the emperor Avitus, who made a desperate sally with only eighteen horsemen,
boldly attacked the Gothic army, and, after maintaining a flying skirmish, retired safe and
victorious within the walls of Clermont. His charity was equal to his courage: in a time of
extreme scarcity, four thousand poor were fed at his expense; and his private influence levied
an army of Burgundians for the deliverance of Auvergne. From his virtues alone the faithful
citizens of Gaul derived any hopes of safety or freedom; and even such virtues were insufficient
to avert the impending ruin of their country, since they were anxious to learn, from his authority
and example, whether they should prefer the alternative of exile or servitude. The public confidence
was lost; the resources of the state were exhausted; and the Gauls had too much reason to believe,
that Anthemius, who reigned in Italy, was incapable of protecting his distressed subjects beyond
the Alps. The feeble emperor could only procure for their defence the service of twelve thousand
British auxiliaries. Riothamus, one of the independent kings, or chieftains, of the island,
was persuaded to transport his troops to the continent of Gaul: he sailed up the Loire, and
established his quarters in Berry, where the people complained of these oppressive allies,
till they were destroyed or dispersed by the arms of the Visigoths.

One of the last acts of jurisdiction, which the Roman senate exercised over their subjects
of Gaul, was the trial and condemnation of Arvandus, the Prætorian præfect. Sidonius, who rejoices
that he lived under a reign in which he might pity and assist a state criminal, has expressed,
with tenderness and freedom, the faults of his indiscreet and unfortunate friend. From the
perils which he had escaped, Arvandus imbibed confidence rather than wisdom; and such was the
various, though uniform, imprudence of his behavior, that his prosperity must appear much more
surprising than his downfall. The second præfecture, which he obtained within the term of five
years, abolished the merit and popularity of his preceding administration. His easy temper
was corrupted by flattery, and exasperated by opposition; he was forced to satisfy his importunate
creditors with the spoils of the province; his capricious insolence offended the nobles of
Gaul, and he sunk under the weight of the public hatred. The mandate of his disgrace summoned
him to justify his conduct before the senate; and he passed the Sea of Tuscany with a favorable
wind, the presage, as he vainly imagined, of his future fortunes. A decent respect was still
observed for the Prfectorian rank; and on his arrival at Rome, Arvandus was committed to the
hospitality, rather than to the custody, of Flavius Asellus, the count of the sacred largesses,
who resided in the Capitol. He was eagerly pursued by his accusers, the four deputies of Gaul,
who were all distinguished by their birth, their dignities, or their eloquence. In the name
of a great province, and according to the forms of Roman jurisprudence, they instituted a civil
and criminal action, requiring such restitution as might compensate the losses of individuals,
and such punishment as might satisfy the justice of the state. Their charges of corrupt oppression
were numerous and weighty; but they placed their secret dependence on a letter which they had
intercepted, and which they could prove, by the evidence of his secretary, to have been dictated
by Arvandus himself. The author of this letter seemed to dissuade the king of the Goths from
a peace with the Greek emperor: he suggested the attack of the Britons on the Loire; and he
recommended a division of Gaul, according to the law of nations, between the Visigoths and
the Burgundians. These pernicious schemes, which a friend could only palliate by the reproaches
of vanity and indiscretion, were susceptible of a treasonable interpretation; and the deputies
had artfully resolved not to produce their most formidable weapons till the decisive moment
of the contest. But their intentions were discovered by the zeal of Sidonius. He immediately
apprised the unsuspecting criminal of his danger; and sincerely lamented, without any mixture
of anger, the haughty presumption of Arvandus, who rejected, and even resented, the salutary
advice of his friends. Ignorant of his real situation, Arvandus showed himself in the Capitol
in the white robe of a candidate, accepted indiscriminate salutations and offers of service,
examined the shops of the merchants, the silks and gems, sometimes with the indifference of
a spectator, and sometimes with the attention of a purchaser; and complained of the times,
of the senate, of the prince, and of the delays of justice. His complaints were soon removed.
An early day was fixed for his trial; and Arvandus appeared, with his accusers, before a numerous
assembly of the Roman senate. The mournful garb which they affected, excited the compassion
of the judges, who were scandalized by the gay and splendid dress of their adversary: and when
the præfect Arvandus, with the first of the Gallic deputies, were directed to take their places
on the senatorial benches, the same contrast of pride and modesty was observed in their behavior.
In this memorable judgment, which presented a lively image of the old republic, the Gauls exposed,
with force and freedom, the grievances of the province; and as soon as the minds of the audience
were sufficiently inflamed, they recited the fatal epistle. The obstinacy of Arvandus was founded
on the strange supposition, that a subject could not be convicted of treason, unless he had
actually conspired to assume the purple. As the paper was read, he repeatedly, and with a loud
voice, acknowledged it for his genuine composition; and his astonishment was equal to his dismay,
when the unanimous voice of the senate declared him guilty of a capital offence. By their decree,
he was degraded from the rank of a præfect to the obscure condition of a plebeian, and ignominiously
dragged by servile hands to the public prison. After a fortnight's adjournment, the senate
was again convened to pronounce the sentence of his death; but while he expected, in the Island
of Æsculapius, the expiration of the thirty days allowed by an ancient law to the vilest malefactors,
his friends interposed, the emperor Anthemius relented, and the præfect of Gaul obtained the
milder punishment of exile and confiscation. The faults of Arvandus might deserve compassion;
but the impunity of Seronatus accused the justice of the republic, till he was condemned and
executed, on the complaint of the people of Auvergne. That flagitious minister, the Catiline
of his age and country, held a secret correspondence with the Visigoths, to betray the province
which he oppressed: his industry was continually exercised in the discovery of new taxes and
obsolete offences; and his extravagant vices would have inspired contempt, if they had not
excited fear and abhorrence.

Such criminals were not beyond the reach of justice; but whatever might be the guilt of Ricimer,
that powerful Barbarian was able to contend or to negotiate with the prince, whose alliance
he had condescended to accept. The peaceful and prosperous reign which Anthemius had promised
to the West, was soon clouded by misfortune and discord. Ricimer, apprehensive, or impatient,
of a superior, retired from Rome, and fixed his residence at Milan; an advantageous situation
either to invite or to repel the warlike tribes that were seated between the Alps and the Danube.
Italy was gradually divided into two independent and hostile kingdoms; and the nobles of Liguria,
who trembled at the near approach of a civil war, fell prostrate at the feet of the patrician,
and conjured him to spare their unhappy country. "For my own part," replied Ricimer, in a tone
of insolent moderation, "I am still inclined to embrace the friendship of the Galatian; but
who will undertake to appease his anger, or to mitigate the pride, which always rises in proportion
to our submission?" They informed him, that Epiphanius, bishop of Pavia, united the wisdom
of the serpent with the innocence of the dove; and appeared confident, that the eloquence of
such an ambassador must prevail against the strongest opposition, either of interest or passion.
Their recommendation was approved; and Epiphanius, assuming the benevolent office of mediation,
proceeded without delay to Rome, where he was received with the honors due to his merit and
reputation. The oration of a bishop in favor of peace may be easily supposed; he argued, that,
in all possible circumstances, the forgiveness of injuries must be an act of mercy, or magnanimity,
or prudence; and he seriously admonished the emperor to avoid a contest with a fierce Barbarian,
which might be fatal to himself, and must be ruinous to his dominions. Anthemius acknowledged
the truth of his maxims; but he deeply felt, with grief and indignation, the behavior of Ricimer,
and his passion gave eloquence and energy to his discourse. "What favors," he warmly exclaimed,
"have we refused to this ungrateful man? What provocations have we not endured! Regardless
of the majesty of the purple, I gave my daughter to a Goth; I sacrificed my own blood to the
safety of the republic. The liberality which ought to have secured the eternal attachment of
Ricimer has exasperated him against his benefactor. What wars has he not excited against the
empire! How often has he instigated and assisted the fury of hostile nations! Shall I now accept
his perfidious friendship? Can I hope that he will respect the engagements of a treaty, who
has already violated the duties of a son?" But the anger of Anthemius evaporated in these passionate
exclamations: he insensibly yielded to the proposals of Epiphanius; and the bishop returned
to his diocese with the satisfaction of restoring the peace of Italy, by a reconciliation,
of which the sincerity and continuance might be reasonably suspected. The clemency of the emperor
was extorted from his weakness; and Ricimer suspended his ambitious designs till he had secretly
prepared the engines with which he resolved to subvert the throne of Anthemius. The mask of
peace and moderation was then thrown aside. The army of Ricimer was fortified by a numerous
reenforcement of Burgundians and Oriental Suevi: he disclaimed all allegiance to the Greek
emperor, marched from Milan to the Gates of Rome, and fixing his camp on the banks of the Anio,
impatiently expected the arrival of Olybrius, his Imperial candidate.

The senator Olybrius, of the Anician family, might esteem himself the lawful heir of the Western
empire. He had married Placidia, the younger daughter of Valentinian, after she was restored
by Genseric; who still detained her sister Eudoxia, as the wife, or rather as the captive,
of his son. The king of the Vandals supported, by threats and solicitations, the fair pretensions
of his Roman ally; and assigned, as one of the motives of the war, the refusal of the senate
and people to acknowledge their lawful prince, and the unworthy preference which they had given
to a stranger. The friendship of the public enemy might render Olybrius still more unpopular
to the Italians; but when Ricimer meditated the ruin of the emperor Anthemius, he tempted,
with the offer of a diadem, the candidate who could justify his rebellion by an illustrious
name and a royal alliance. The husband of Placidia, who, like most of his ancestors, had been
invested with the consular dignity, might have continued to enjoy a secure and splendid fortune
in the peaceful residence of Constantinople; nor does he appear to have been tormented by such
a genius as cannot be amused or occupied, unless by the administration of an empire. Yet Olybrius
yielded to the importunities of his friends, perhaps of his wife; rashly plunged into the dangers
and calamities of a civil war; and, with the secret connivance of the emperor Leo, accepted
the Italian purple, which was bestowed, and resumed, at the capricious will of a Barbarian.
He landed without obstacle (for Genseric was master of the sea) either at Ravenna, or the port
of Ostia, and immediately proceeded to the camp of Ricimer, where he was received as the sovereign
of the Western world.

The patrician, who had extended his posts from the Anio to the Melvian bridge, already possessed
two quarters of Rome, the Vatican and the Janiculum, which are separated by the Tyber from
the rest of the city; and it may be conjectured, that an assembly of seceding senators imitated,
in the choice of Olybrius, the forms of a legal election. But the body of the senate and people
firmly adhered to the cause of Anthemius; and the more effectual support of a Gothic army enabled
him to prolong his reign, and the public distress, by a resistance of three months, which produced
the concomitant evils of famine and pestilence. At length Ricimer made a furious assault on
the bridge of Hadrian, or St. Angelo; and the narrow pass was defended with equal valor by
the Goths, till the death of Gilimer, their leader. The victorious troops, breaking down every
barrier, rushed with irresistible violence into the heart of the city, and Rome (if we may
use the language of a contemporary pope) was subverted by the civil fury of Anthemius and Ricimer.
The unfortunate Anthemius was dragged from his concealment, and inhumanly massacred by the
command of his son-in-law; who thus added a third, or perhaps a fourth, emperor to the number
of his victims. The soldiers, who united the rage of factious citizens with the savage manners
of Barbarians, were indulged, without control, in the license of rapine and murder: the crowd
of slaves and plebeians, who were unconcerned in the event, could only gain by the indiscriminate
pillage; and the face of the city exhibited the strange contrast of stern cruelty and dissolute
intemperance. Forty days after this calamitous event, the subject, not of glory, but of guilt,
Italy was delivered, by a painful disease, from the tyrant Ricimer, who bequeathed the command
of his army to his nephew Gundobald, one of the princes of the Burgundians. In the same year
all the principal actors in this great revolution were removed from the stage; and the whole
reign of Olybrius, whose death does not betray any symptoms of violence, is included within
the term of seven months. He left one daughter, the offspring of his marriage with Placidia;
and the family of the great Theodosius, transplanted from Spain to Constantinople, was propagated
in the female line as far as the eighth generation.

Chapter XXXVI: Total Extinction Of The Western Empire.--Part V.

Whilst the vacant throne of Italy was abandoned to lawless Barbarians, the election of a new
colleague was seriously agitated in the council of Leo. The empress Verina, studious to promote
the greatness of her own family, had married one of her nieces to Julius Nepos, who succeeded
his uncle Marcellinus in the sovereignty of Dalmatia, a more solid possession than the title
which he was persuaded to accept, of Emperor of the West. But the measures of the Byzantine
court were so languid and irresolute, that many months elapsed after the death of Anthemius,
and even of Olybrius, before their destined successor could show himself, with a respectable
force, to his Italian subjects. During that interval, Glycerius, an obscure soldier, was invested
with the purple by his patron Gundobald; but the Burgundian prince was unable, or unwilling,
to support his nomination by a civil war: the pursuits of domestic ambition recalled him beyond
the Alps, and his client was permitted to exchange the Roman sceptre for the bishopric of Salona.
After extinguishing such a competitor, the emperor Nepos was acknowledged by the senate, by
the Italians, and by the provincials of Gaul; his moral virtues, and military talents, were
loudly celebrated; and those who derived any private benefit from his government, announced,
in prophetic strains, the restoration of the public felicity. Their hopes (if such hopes had
been entertained) were confounded within the term of a single year, and the treaty of peace,
which ceded Auvergne to the Visigoths, is the only event of his short and inglorious reign.
The most faithful subjects of Gaul were sacrificed, by the Italian emperor, to the hope of
domestic security; but his repose was soon invaded by a furious sedition of the Barbarian confederates,
who, under the command of Orestes, their general, were in full march from Rome to Ravenna.
Nepos trembled at their approach; and, instead of placing a just confidence in the strength
of Ravenna, he hastily escaped to his ships, and retired to his Dalmatian principality, on
the opposite coast of the Adriatic. By this shameful abdication, he protracted his life about
five years, in a very ambiguous state, between an emperor and an exile, till he was assassinated
at Salona by the ungrateful Glycerius, who was translated, perhaps as the reward of his crime,
to the archbishopric of Milan.

The nations who had asserted their independence after the death of Attila, were established,
by the right of possession or conquest, in the boundless countries to the north of the Danube;
or in the Roman provinces between the river and the Alps. But the bravest of their youth enlisted
in the army of confederates, who formed the defence and the terror of Italy; and in this promiscuous
multitude, the names of the Heruli, the Scyrri, the Alani, the Turcilingi, and the Rugians,
appear to have predominated. The example of these warriors was imitated by Orestes, the son
of Tatullus, and the father of the last Roman emperor of the West. Orestes, who has been already
mentioned in this History, had never deserted his country. His birth and fortunes rendered
him one of the most illustrious subjects of Pannonia. When that province was ceded to the Huns,
he entered into the service of Attila, his lawful sovereign, obtained the office of his secretary,
and was repeatedly sent ambassador to Constantinople, to represent the person, and signify
the commands, of the imperious monarch. The death of that conqueror restored him to his freedom;
and Orestes might honorably refuse either to follow the sons of Attila into the Scythian desert,
or to obey the Ostrogoths, who had usurped the dominion of Pannonia. He preferred the service
of the Italian princes, the successors of Valentinian; and as he possessed the qualifications
of courage, industry, and experience, he advanced with rapid steps in the military profession,
till he was elevated, by the favor of Nepos himself, to the dignities of patrician, and master-general
of the troops. These troops had been long accustomed to reverence the character and authority
of Orestes, who affected their manners, conversed with them in their own language, and was
intimately connected with their national chieftains, by long habits of familiarity and friendship.
At his solicitation they rose in arms against the obscure Greek, who presumed to claim their
obedience; and when Orestes, from some secret motive, declined the purple, they consented,
with the same facility, to acknowledge his son Augustulus as the emperor of the West. By the
abdication of Nepos, Orestes had now attained the summit of his ambitious hopes; but he soon
discovered, before the end of the first year, that the lessons of perjury and ingratitude,
which a rebel must inculcate, will be resorted to against himself; and that the precarious
sovereign of Italy was only permitted to choose, whether he would be the slave, or the victim,
of his Barbarian mercenaries. The dangerous alliance of these strangers had oppressed and insulted
the last remains of Roman freedom and dignity. At each revolution, their pay and privileges
were augmented; but their insolence increased in a still more extravagant degree; they envied
the fortune of their brethren in Gaul, Spain, and Africa, whose victorious arms had acquired
an independent and perpetual inheritance; and they insisted on their peremptory demand, that
a third part of the lands of Italy should be immediately divided among them. Orestes, with
a spirit, which, in another situation, might be entitled to our esteem, chose rather to encounter
the rage of an armed multitude, than to subscribe the ruin of an innocent people. He rejected
the audacious demand; and his refusal was favorable to the ambition of Odoacer; a bold Barbarian,
who assured his fellow-soldiers, that, if they dared to associate under his command, they might
soon extort the justice which had been denied to their dutiful petitions. From all the camps
and garrisons of Italy, the confederates, actuated by the same resentment and the same hopes,
impatiently flocked to the standard of this popular leader; and the unfortunate patrician,
overwhelmed by the torrent, hastily retreated to the strong city of Pavia, the episcopal seat
of the holy Epiphanites. Pavia was immediately besieged, the fortifications were stormed, the
town was pillaged; and although the bishop might labor, with much zeal and some success, to
save the property of the church, and the chastity of female captives, the tumult could only
be appeased by the execution of Orestes. His brother Paul was slain in an action near Ravenna;
and the helpless Augustulus, who could no longer command the respect, was reduced to implore
the clemency, of Odoacer.

That successful Barbarian was the son of Edecon; who, in some remarkable transactions, particularly
described in a preceding chapter, had been the colleague of Orestes himself. The honor of an
ambassador should be exempt from suspicion; and Edecon had listened to a conspiracy against
the life of his sovereign. But this apparent guilt was expiated by his merit or repentance;
his rank was eminent and conspicuous; he enjoyed the favor of Attila; and the troops under
his command, who guarded, in their turn, the royal village, consisted of a tribe of Scyrri,
his immediate and hereditary subjects. In the revolt of the nations, they still adhered to
the Huns; and more than twelve years afterwards, the name of Edecon is honorably mentioned,
in their unequal contests with the Ostrogoths; which was terminated, after two bloody battles,
by the defeat and dispersion of the Scyrri. Their gallant leader, who did not survive this
national calamity, left two sons, Onulf and Odoacer, to struggle with adversity, and to maintain
as they might, by rapine or service, the faithful followers of their exile. Onulf directed
his steps towards Constantinople, where he sullied, by the assassination of a generous benefactor,
the fame which he had acquired in arms. His brother Odoacer led a wandering life among the
Barbarians of Noricum, with a mind and a fortune suited to the most desperate adventures; and
when he had fixed his choice, he piously visited the cell of Severinus, the popular saint of
the country, to solicit his approbation and blessing. The lowness of the door would not admit
the lofty stature of Odoacer: he was obliged to stoop; but in that humble attitude the saint
could discern the symptoms of his future greatness; and addressing him in a prophetic tone,
"Pursue" (said he) "your design; proceed to Italy; you will soon cast away this coarse garment
of skins; and your wealth will be adequate to the liberality of your mind." The Barbarian,
whose daring spirit accepted and ratified the prediction, was admitted into the service of
the Western empire, and soon obtained an honorable rank in the guards. His manners were gradually
polished, his military skill was improved, and the confederates of Italy would not have elected
him for their general, unless the exploits of Odoacer had established a high opinion of his
courage and capacity. Their military acclamations saluted him with the title of king; but he
abstained, during his whole reign, from the use of the purple and diadem, lest he should offend
those princes, whose subjects, by their accidental mixture, had formed the victorious army,
which time and policy might insensibly unite into a great nation.

Royalty was familiar to the Barbarians, and the submissive people of Italy was prepared to
obey, without a murmur, the authority which he should condescend to exercise as the vicegerent
of the emperor of the West. But Odoacer had resolved to abolish that useless and expensive
office; and such is the weight of antique prejudice, that it required some boldness and penetration
to discover the extreme facility of the enterprise. The unfortunate Augustulus was made the
instrument of his own disgrace: he signified his resignation to the senate; and that assembly,
in their last act of obedience to a Roman prince, still affected the spirit of freedom, and
the forms of the constitution. An epistle was addressed, by their unanimous decree, to the
emperor Zeno, the son-in-law and successor of Leo; who had lately been restored, after a short
rebellion, to the Byzantine throne. They solemnly "disclaim the necessity, or even the wish,
of continuing any longer the Imperial succession in Italy; since, in their opinion, the majesty
of a sole monarch is sufficient to pervade and protect, at the same time, both the East and
the West. In their own name, and in the name of the people, they consent that the seat of universal
empire shall be transferred from Rome to Constantinople; and they basely renounce the right
of choosing their master, the only vestige that yet remained of the authority which had given
laws to the world. The republic (they repeat that name without a blush) might safely confide
in the civil and military virtues of Odoacer; and they humbly request, that the emperor would
invest him with the title of Patrician, and the administration of the diocese of Italy." The
deputies of the senate were received at Constantinople with some marks of displeasure and indignation:
and when they were admitted to the audience of Zeno, he sternly reproached them with their
treatment of the two emperors, Anthemius and Nepos, whom the East had successively granted
to the prayers of Italy. "The first" (continued he) "you have murdered; the second you have
expelled; but the second is still alive, and whilst he lives he is your lawful sovereign."
But the prudent Zeno soon deserted the hopeless cause of his abdicated colleague. His vanity
was gratified by the title of sole emperor, and by the statues erected to his honor in the
several quarters of Rome; he entertained a friendly, though ambiguous, correspondence with
the patrician Odoacer; and he gratefully accepted the Imperial ensigns, the sacred ornaments
of the throne and palace, which the Barbarian was not unwilling to remove from the sight of
the people. The patrician Orestes had married the daughter of Count Romulus, of Petovio in
Noricum: the name of Augustus, notwithstanding the jealousy of power, was known at Aquileia
as a familiar surname; and the appellations of the two great founders, of the city and of the
monarchy, were thus strangely united in the last of their successors. The son of Orestes assumed
and disgraced the names of Romulus Augustus; but the first was corrupted into Momyllus, by
the Greeks, and the second has been changed by the Latins into the contemptible diminutive
Augustulus. The life of this inoffensive youth was spared by the generous clemency of Odoacer;
who dismissed him, with his whole family, from the Imperial palace, fixed his annual allowance
at six thousand pieces of gold, and assigned the castle of Lucullus, in Campania, for the place
of his exile or retirement. As soon as the Romans breathed from the toils of the Punic war,
they were attracted by the beauties and the pleasures of Campania; and the country-house of
the elder Scipio at Liternum exhibited a lasting model of their rustic simplicity. The delicious
shores of the Bay of Naples were crowded with villas; and Sylla applauded the masterly skill
of his rival, who had seated himself on the lofty promontory of Misenum, that commands, on
every side, the sea and land, as far as the boundaries of the horizon. The villa of Marius
was purchased, within a few years, by Lucullus, and the price had increased from two thousand
five hundred, to more than fourscore thousand, pounds sterling. It was adorned by the new proprietor
with Grecian arts and Asiatic treasures; and the houses and gardens of Lucullus obtained a
distinguished rank in the list of Imperial palaces. When the Vandals became formidable to the
sea-coast, the Lucullan villa, on the promontory of Misenum, gradually assumed the strength
and appellation of a strong castle, the obscure retreat of the last emperor of the West. When the
wind rustled through the trees, it seemed to him as he heard footsteps behind him, and if the bushes
on the way back and forth swayed and parted, he thought he faces
lurking behind the bushes to see.

The
young goldsmith was not usually superstitious or frail. In Wuerzburg, where he had learned he was
among his comrades for a brave boy, his heart in the right place, the
seats, but today it was very strange feeling. He had been so many narrative,
Spessart, there should be a great Raeuberbande its essence to drive
many travelers were in the last few weeks have been looted, so there
was even talk of some horrible murder stories that happened a long
time there were not before.

Since he was now somewhat afraid for his life, because they were only in pairs and were against armed
robbers little focus at all. Often, it repented him that he followed was compass-maker to the station to
go one more, instead of the wood over night stay at the entrance. "And if I night was killed today
and at life and everything, come what I have with so it is all your fault, compass-maker, for you
have me the terrible forest hereingeschwaetzt in. "" Do not be a rabbit foot, "replied the other,"
a true artisan is not really afraid. And what do you think?

Do you think the gentlemen Robbers in the Spessart us the honor do to attack us and kill, why should
they bother trying this? about because of my Sunday coat, which I
knapsack have in or on account of the Zehrpfennigs of a thaler?

So you
have to fours go already be dressed in gold and silk if they find it worth the, killing one. "Stop,
Do not you hear something whistling in the woods?" cried Felix scared. "That was the wind that
whistled around the trees, go fast forward only, it can not last for long." "Yes, you speak
well because of manslaughter," went gold on the workers. You ask them what you have, search, and
you take you at most a Sunday coat and the florin and thirty cruisers, but me, beat me like they initially
dead, only because I gold jewelry with my guide.

And ""

Why, why should " it you kill for that? came now four or five there from
the bush with loaded rifles, they are moored to, and asked very politely:
"Sirs, what did you?" and "Make yourselves comfortable in, let's you
help carry ", and what kind expressions are graceful, since you would
probably not score, did little knapsack on your and didst put the
yellow vest, blue skirt, two shirts and all the collars and bracelets,
combs, and whatever else you have, polite on the ground and thanked
you for life, that you gave them.

"" Oh, you mean, "said Felix very eagerly," the jewelry for my godmother, the noble Countess, should
I give? Rather, my life, I rather let me small pieces cut in. Did not she a mother to me, represent, and
my tenth year I raise since leave? Did she not teaching for me paid and clothes and everything? And
now that I can visit them and bring something of my own work that
she has ordered the master, now that I could show her beautiful jewelry
at the what I have learned, now I want to give up all that and the
yellow waistcoat, which I have of her, too?

No rather die than I poor people of my godmother ornaments give the "" Do not be a fool! "
cried the compass-maker. "If they kill you, the wife gets no jewelry but the Countess. So it is
better that you'll receive it and give her your life." Felix did not answer, the night was now come up completely,
and in the uncertain light of the new moon could to five steps in front of him hardly see he was
more anxious considered himself closer to his comrades and had disagreed with whether he should
accept the evidence and his speeches or not. Another hour was nearly gone, since she saw a light
in the distance.

The young goldsmith but said, do not trust ought not perhaps it could one Raeuberhaus to be, but
the compass-maker informed him that the robbers houses or caves below the earth have their own, and
to do so to the inn to be, to them a man at the entrance of the forest described. It was a long
but low house, a cart was before it, and in the stable next door heard horses neighing man.
The compass-maker beckoned his companions to a window whose shutters were opened. They could,
if they stood on tiptoe, the room overlooked. On the stove in an armchair to sleep man, his
clothing Men of the cart before the driver could be Tuere and probably the one after. On the
other side of the stove sat a woman and a girl and span on the wall
behind the table sat a man, a glass of wine before him, hands resting
his head was in, so that they could not see his face.

 St. Ambrose has deplored the ruin of
a populous district, which had been once adorned with the flourishing
cities of Bologna, Modena, Regium, and Placentia. Pope Gelasius was a
subject of Odoacer; and he affirms, with strong exaggeration, that
in Æmilia, Tuscany, and the adjacent provinces, the human species was
almost extirpated. The plebeians of Rome, who were fed by the hand of
their master, perished or disappeared, as soon as his liberality was
suppressed; the decline of the arts reduced the industrious mechanic to
idleness and want; and the senators, who might support with patience the
ruin of their country, bewailed their private loss of wealth and luxury.
 One third of those ample estates, to which the ruin of Italy is
originally imputed, was extorted for the use of the conquerors.
Injuries were aggravated by insults; the sense of actual sufferings was
imbittered by the fear of more dreadful evils; and as new lands were
allotted to the new swarms of Barbarians, each senator was apprehensive
lest the arbitrary surveyors should approach his favorite villa, or his
most profitable farm. The least unfortunate were those who submitted
without a murmur to the power which it was impossible to resist. Since
they desired to live, they owed some gratitude to the tyrant who had
spared their lives; and since he was the absolute master of their
fortunes, the portion which he left must be accepted as his pure and
voluntary gift. The distress of Italy was mitigated by the prudence
and humanity of Odoacer, who had bound himself, as the price of
his elevation, to satisfy the demands of a licentious and turbulent
multitude. The kings of the Barbarians were frequently resisted,
deposed, or murdered, by their native subjects, and the various bands
of Italian mercenaries, who associated under the standard of an elective
general, claimed a larger privilege of freedom and rapine. A monarchy
destitute of national union, and hereditary right, hastened to its
dissolution. After a reign of fourteen years, Odoacer was oppressed by
the superior genius of Theodoric, king of the Ostrogoths; a hero alike
excellent in the arts of war and of government, who restored an age
of peace and prosperity, and whose name still excites and deserves the
attention of mankind.

Chapter XXXVII: Conversion Of The Barbarians To Christianity.--Part I.

     Origin Progress, And Effects Of The Monastic Life.--
     Conversion Of The Barbarians To Christianity And Arianism.--
     Persecution Of The Vandals In Africa.--Extinction Of
     Arianism Among The Barbarians.

The indissoluble connection of civil and ecclesiastical affairs has compelled, and encouraged,
me to relate the progress, the persecutions, the establishment, the divisions, the final triumph,
and the gradual corruption, of Christianity. I have purposely delayed the consideration of
two religious events, interesting in the study of human nature, and important in the decline
and fall of the Roman empire. I. The institution of the monastic life; and, II. The conversion
of the northern Barbarians.

I. Prosperity and peace introduced the distinction of the vulgar and the Ascetic Christians.
The loose and imperfect practice of religion satisfied the conscience of the multitude. The
prince or magistrate, the soldier or merchant, reconciled their fervent zeal, and implicit
faith, with the exercise of their profession, the pursuit of their interest, and the indulgence
of their passions: but the Ascetics, who obeyed and abused the rigid precepts of the gospel,
were inspired by the savage enthusiasm which represents man as a criminal, and God as a tyrant.
They seriously renounced the business, and the pleasures, of the age; abjured the use of wine,
of flesh, and of marriage; chastised their body, mortified their affections, and embraced a
life of misery, as the price of eternal happiness. In the reign of Constantine, the Ascetics
fled from a profane and degenerate world, to perpetual solitude, or religious society. Like
the first Christians of Jerusalem, they resigned the use, or the property of their temporal
possessions; established regular communities of the same sex, and a similar disposition; and
assumed the names of Hermits, Monks, and Anachorets, expressive of their lonely retreat in
a natural or artificial desert. They soon acquired the respect of the world, which they despised;
and the loudest applause was bestowed on this Divine Philosophy, which surpassed, without the
aid of science or reason, the laborious virtues of the Grecian schools. The monks might indeed
contend with the Stoics, in the contempt of fortune, of pain, and of death: the Pythagorean
silence and submission were revived in their servile discipline; and they disdained, as firmly
as the Cynics themselves, all the forms and decencies of civil society. But the votaries of
this Divine Philosophy aspired to imitate a purer and more perfect model. They trod in the
footsteps of the prophets, who had retired to the desert; and they restored the devout and
contemplative life, which had been instituted by the Essenians, in Palestine and Egypt. The
philosophic eye of Pliny had surveyed with astonishment a solitary people, who dwelt among
the palm-trees near the Dead Sea; who subsisted without money, who were propagated without
women; and who derived from the disgust and repentance of mankind a perpetual supply of voluntary
associates.

Egypt, the fruitful parent of superstition, afforded the first example of the monastic life.
Antony, an illiterate youth of the lower parts of Thebais, distributed his patrimony, deserted
his family and native home, and executed his monastic penance with original and intrepid fanaticism.
After a long and painful novitiate, among the tombs, and in a ruined tower, he boldly advanced
into the desert three days' journey to the eastward of the Nile; discovered a lonely spot,
which possessed the advantages of shade and water, and fixed his last residence on Mount Colzim,
near the Red Sea; where an ancient monastery still preserves the name and memory of the saint.
The curious devotion of the Christians pursued him to the desert; and when he was obliged to
appear at Alexandria, in the face of mankind, he supported his fame with discretion and dignity.
He enjoyed the friendship of Athanasius, whose doctrine he approved; and the Egyptian peasant
respectfully declined a respectful invitation from the emperor Constantine. The venerable patriarch
(for Antony attained the age of one hundred and five years) beheld the numerous progeny which
had been formed by his example and his lessons. The prolific colonies of monks multiplied with
rapid increase on the sands of Libya, upon the rocks of Thebais, and in the cities of the Nile.
To the south of Alexandria, the mountain, and adjacent desert, of Nitria, were peopled by five
thousand anachorets; and the traveller may still investigate the ruins of fifty monasteries,
which were planted in that barren soil by the disciples of Antony. In the Upper Thebais, the
vacant island of Tabenne, was occupied by Pachomius and fourteen hundred of his brethren. That
holy abbot successively founded nine monasteries of men, and one of women; and the festival
of Easter sometimes collected fifty thousand religious persons, who followed his angelic rule
of discipline. The stately and populous city of Oxyrinchus, the seat of Christian orthodoxy,
had devoted the temples, the public edifices, and even the ramparts, to pious and charitable
uses; and the bishop, who might preach in twelve churches, computed ten thousand females and
twenty thousand males, of the monastic profession. The Egyptians, who gloried in this marvellous
revolution, were disposed to hope, and to believe, that the number of the monks was equal to
the remainder of the people; and posterity might repeat the saying, which had formerly been
applied to the sacred animals of the same country, That in Egypt it was less difficult to find
a god than a man.

Athanasius introduced into Rome the knowledge and practice of the monastic life; and a school
of this new philosophy was opened by the disciples of Antony, who accompanied their primate
to the holy threshold of the Vatican. The strange and savage appearance of these Egyptians
excited, at first, horror and contempt, and, at length, applause and zealous imitation. The
senators, and more especially the matrons, transformed their palaces and villas into religious
houses; and the narrow institution of six Vestals was eclipsed by the frequent monasteries,
which were seated on the ruins of ancient temples, and in the midst of the Roman forum. Inflamed
by the example of Antony, a Syrian youth, whose name was Hilarion, fixed his dreary abode on
a sandy beach, between the sea and a morass, about seven miles from Gaza. The austere penance,
in which he persisted forty-eight years, diffused a similar enthusiasm; and the holy man was
followed by a train of two or three thousand anachorets, whenever he visited the innumerable
monasteries of Palestine. The fame of Basil is immortal in the monastic history of the East.
With a mind that had tasted the learning and eloquence of Athens; with an ambition scarcely
to be satisfied with the archbishopric of Cæsarea, Basil retired to a savage solitude in Pontus;
and deigned, for a while, to give laws to the spiritual colonies which he profusely scattered
along the coast of the Black Sea. In the West, Martin of Tours, a soldier, a hermit, a bishop,
and a saint, established the monasteries of Gaul; two thousand of his disciples followed him
to the grave; and his eloquent historian challenges the deserts of Thebais to produce, in a
more favorable climate, a champion of equal virtue. The progress of the monks was not less
rapid, or universal, than that of Christianity itself. Every province, and, at last, every
city, of the empire, was filled with their increasing multitudes; and the bleak and barren
isles, from Lerins to Lipari, that arose out of the Tuscan Sea, were chosen by the anachorets
for the place of their voluntary exile. An easy and perpetual intercourse by sea and land connected
the provinces of the Roman world; and the life of Hilarion displays the facility with which
an indigent hermit of Palestine might traverse Egypt, embark for Sicily, escape to Epirus,
and finally settle in the Island of Cyprus. The Latin Christians embraced the religious institutions
of Rome. The pilgrims, who visited Jerusalem, eagerly copied, in the most distant climates
of the earth, the faithful model of the monastic life. The disciples of Antony spread themselves
beyond the tropic, over the Christian empire of Æthiopia. The monastery of Banchor, in Flintshire,
which contained above two thousand brethren, dispersed a numerous colony among the Barbarians
of Ireland; and Iona, one of the Hebrides, which was planted by the Irish monks, diffused over
the northern regions a doubtful ray of science and superstition.

These unhappy exiles from social life were impelled by the dark and implacable genius of superstition.
Their mutual resolution was supported by the example of millions, of either sex, of every age,
and of every rank; and each proselyte who entered the gates of a monastery, was persuaded that
he trod the steep and thorny path of eternal happiness. But the operation of these religious
motives was variously determined by the temper and situation of mankind. Reason might subdue,
or passion might suspend, their influence: but they acted most forcibly on the infirm minds
of children and females; they were strengthened by secret remorse, or accidental misfortune;
and they might derive some aid from the temporal considerations of vanity or interest. It was
naturally supposed, that the pious and humble monks, who had renounced the world to accomplish
the work of their salvation, were the best qualified for the spiritual government of the Christians.
The reluctant hermit was torn from his cell, and seated, amidst the acclamations of the people,
on the episcopal throne: the monasteries of Egypt, of Gaul, and of the East, supplied a regular
succession of saints and bishops; and ambition soon discovered the secret road which led to
the possession of wealth and honors. The popular monks, whose reputation was connected with
the fame and success of the order, assiduously labored to multiply the number of their fellow-captives.
They insinuated themselves into noble and opulent families; and the specious arts of flattery
and seduction were employed to secure those proselytes who might bestow wealth or dignity on
the monastic profession. The indignant father bewailed the loss, perhaps, of an only son; the
credulous maid was betrayed by vanity to violate the laws of nature; and the matron aspired
to imaginary perfection, by renouncing the virtues of domestic life. Paula yielded to the persuasive
eloquence of Jerom; and the profane title of mother-in-law of God tempted that illustrious
widow to consecrate the virginity of her daughter Eustochium. By the advice, and in the company,
of her spiritual guide, Paula abandoned Rome and her infant son; retired to the holy village
of Bethlem; founded a hospital and four monasteries; and acquired, by her alms and penance,
an eminent and conspicuous station in the Catholic church. Such rare and illustrious penitents
were celebrated as the glory and example of their age; but the monasteries were filled by a
crowd of obscure and abject plebeians, who gained in the cloister much more than they had sacrificed
in the world. Peasants, slaves, and mechanics, might escape from poverty and contempt to a
safe and honorable profession; whose apparent hardships are mitigated by custom, by popular
applause, and by the secret relaxation of discipline. The subjects of Rome, whose persons and
fortunes were made responsible for unequal and exorbitant tributes, retired from the oppression
of the Imperial government; and the pusillanimous youth preferred the penance of a monastic,
to the dangers of a military, life. The affrighted provincials of every rank, who fled before
the Barbarians, found shelter and subsistence: whole legions were buried in these religious
sanctuaries; and the same cause, which relieved the distress of individuals, impaired the strength
and fortitude of the empire.

The monastic profession of the ancients was an act of voluntary devotion. The inconstant fanatic
was threatened with the eternal vengeance of the God whom he deserted; but the doors of the
monastery were still open for repentance. Those monks, whose conscience was fortified by reason
or passion, were at liberty to resume the character of men and citizens; and even the spouses
of Christ might accept the legal embraces of an earthly lover. The examples of scandal, and
the progress of superstition, suggested the propriety of more forcible restraints. After a
sufficient trial, the fidelity of the novice was secured by a solemn and perpetual vow; and
his irrevocable engagement was ratified by the laws of the church and state. A guilty fugitive
was pursued, arrested, and restored to his perpetual prison; and the interposition of the magistrate
oppressed the freedom and the merit, which had alleviated, in some degree, the abject slavery
of the monastic discipline. The actions of a monk, his words, and even his thoughts, were determined
by an inflexible rule, or a capricious superior: the slightest offences were corrected by disgrace
or confinement, extraordinary fasts, or bloody flagellation; and disobedience, murmur, or delay,
were ranked in the catalogue of the most heinous sins. A blind submission to the commands of
the abbot, however absurd, or even criminal, they might seem, was the ruling principle, the
first virtue of the Egyptian monks; and their patience was frequently exercised by the most
extravagant trials. They were directed to remove an enormous rock; assiduously to water a barren
staff, that was planted in the ground, till, at the end of three years, it should vegetate
and blossom like a tree; to walk into a fiery furnace; or to cast their infant into a deep
pond: and several saints, or madmen, have been immortalized in monastic story, by their thoughtless
and fearless obedience. The freedom of the mind, the source of every generous and rational
sentiment, was destroyed by the habits of credulity and submission; and the monk, contracting
the vices of a slave, devoutly followed the faith and passions of his ecclesiastical tyrant.
The peace of the Eastern church was invaded by a swarm of fanatics, incapable of fear, or reason,
or humanity; and the Imperial troops acknowledged, without shame, that they were much less
apprehensive of an encounter with the fiercest Barbarians.

Superstition has often framed and consecrated the fantastic garments of the monks: but their
apparent singularity sometimes proceeds from their uniform attachment to a simple and primitive
model, which the revolutions of fashion have made ridiculous in the eyes of mankind. The father
of the Benedictines expressly disclaims all idea of choice of merit; and soberly exhorts his
disciples to adopt the coarse and convenient dress of the countries which they may inhabit.
The monastic habits of the ancients varied with the climate, and their mode of life; and they
assumed, with the same indifference, the sheep-skin of the Egyptian peasants, or the cloak
of the Grecian philosophers. They allowed themselves the use of linen in Egypt, where it was
a cheap and domestic manufacture; but in the West they rejected such an expensive article of
foreign luxury. It was the practice of the monks either to cut or shave their hair; they wrapped
their heads in a cowl to escape the sight of profane objects; their legs and feet were naked,
except in the extreme cold of winter; and their slow and feeble steps were supported by a long
staff. The aspect of a genuine anachoret was horrid and disgusting: every sensation that is
offensive to man was thought acceptable to God; and the angelic rule of Tabenne condemned the
salutary custom of bathing the limbs in water, and of anointing them with oil. The austere
monks slept on the ground, on a hard mat, or a rough blanket; and the same bundle of palm-leaves
served them as a seat in the lay, and a pillow in the night. Their original cells were low,
narrow huts, built of the slightest materials; which formed, by the regular distribution of
the streets, a large and populous village, enclosing, within the common wall, a church, a hospital,
perhaps a library, some necessary offices, a garden, and a fountain or reservoir of fresh water.
Thirty or forty brethren composed a family of separate discipline and diet; and the great monasteries
of Egypt consisted of thirty or forty families.

Chapter XXXVII: Conversion Of The Barbarians To Christianity.--Part II.

Pleasure and guilt are synonymous terms in the language of the monks, and they discovered,
by experience, that rigid fasts, and abstemious diet, are the most effectual preservatives
against the impure desires of the flesh. The rules of abstinence which they imposed, or practised,
were not uniform or perpetual: the cheerful festival of the Pentecost was balanced by the extraordinary
mortification of Lent; the fervor of new monasteries was insensibly relaxed; and the voracious
appetite of the Gauls could not imitate the patient and temperate virtue of the Egyptians.
The disciples of Antony and Pachomius were satisfied with their daily pittance, of twelve ounces
of bread, or rather biscuit, which they divided into two frugal repasts, of the afternoon and
of the evening. It was esteemed a merit, and almost a duty, to abstain from the boiled vegetables
which were provided for the refectory; but the extraordinary bounty of the abbot sometimes
indulged them with the luxury of cheese, fruit, salad, and the small dried fish of the Nile.
A more ample latitude of sea and river fish was gradually allowed or assumed; but the use of
flesh was long confined to the sick or travellers; and when it gradually prevailed in the less
rigid monasteries of Europe, a singular distinction was introduced; as if birds, whether wild
or domestic, had been less profane than the grosser animals of the field. Water was the pure
and innocent beverage of the primitive monks; and the founder of the Benedictines regrets the
daily portion of half a pint of wine, which had been extorted from him by the intemperance
of the age. Such an allowance might be easily supplied by the vineyards of Italy; and his victorious
disciples, who passed the Alps, the Rhine, and the Baltic, required, in the place of wine,
an adequate compensation of strong beer or cider.

The candidate who aspired to the virtue of evangelical poverty, abjured, at his first entrance
into a regular community, the idea, and even the name, of all separate or exclusive possessions.
The brethren were supported by their manual labor; and the duty of labor was strenuously recommended
as a penance, as an exercise, and as the most laudable means of securing their daily subsistence.
The garden and fields, which the industry of the monks had often rescued from the forest or
the morass, were diligently cultivated by their hands. Nothing was left him more than the joy
of food and drink and sleep, and so he lived, as he traveled through the world without purpose, his conversation
dined and slept out of boredom. Here and there, but he remembered that he had been happier, more
joyful when he was poor and had had to work to earn a living. Since Vista had him every beautiful
valley, music and singing had amused him, as he had for hours on the simple food, the mother
of the kiln should bring him the pleasure. If he was so over the past thought, it seemed quite strange
to him that he now could not even laugh, and otherwise he had laughed at the joke about the smallest.
When others laughed, he only withdrew from the mouth of courtesy, but his heart - smiled not. Then
he felt that he was indeed very quiet, but he felt himself not satisfied. It was not nostalgia or
melancholy, but desolation, disgust, joyless life, what drove him finally to return home when he
herueberfuhr of Strasbourg and the dark forest his home, saw when he first again that powerful
figures, those friendly, loyal faces of the black woods looked for when his ear the native sounds,
strong, deep, melodious but heard, as he felt fast to his heart,
for his blood flowed stronger and he thought he rnuesse rejoice, and
to cry at the same time, but - how could he be so foolish only he had
t, s heart of stone, and stones are dead and smile and not cry. His
first visit was to Hollaender-Michel, who received him with the old
friendliness. "Michel," he said to him, "I'm gone now and I have seen
everything", but is all nonsense, and I was just bored.

In general, your stone thing that I carry in the chest protects me from many a while; I never
fret me, I'm never sad, but I am also never, and I feel as if I'm only half. Ye can the heart
of stone not to make a little portable? Or - give me my dear old heart, and I had me at twenty-five
years it used to, and if it sometimes a silly prank also made, so it was lively and a happy
heart. "The Spirit of the Wood laughed grimly and bitterly:" If you 're dead, Peter Munk, "he replied," then
it will not fail thee, then thou shalt soft stirrable have your heart again, and then you can feel
what's coming, joy or sorrow, but up here, it may not be yours!

But,
you're probably traveled Peter but, as you lived, you could not do any good - Sit down somewhere
in the woods, build a house, get married now, drive around your fortune, it has been missing you
at work just because you were idle, you had boredom and synced everything now on this innocent heart.
" Peter saw that Michel was right, what would concern the idleness, and resolved to become richer
and to get rich. Michel gave him again a hundred thousand guilders, and dismissed him as his good
friend. Soon we heard in the Black Forest, the Maere, the Charcoal-Peter or game Peter is back and
even richer than before. It was now as always, when on beggary was, he was the sun to Tuere thrown in,
and as he is now on a Sunday afternoon, his first collection there was, she shook hands with him,
praised his horse, asked for his journey, and when he returned with
a bulging Ezekiel to hard dollars played, he stood in respect as high
as ever.

He drove but now no longer the glass trade, but the timber trade, but
only in appearance. His main business was to trade grain and money.

Half Black was guilty after him and after, but he lent money to ten percent, or only sold grain to the
poor, the pay was not equal to, the threefold order value. With the bailiff he was now in close
friendship, and when one Mr. Peter Munk is not paid on the day, then rode the steward and his minions
out, estimated house and home, sold forthwith and drove his father,
mother and child in the woods.

At first this made the rich Peter some pain, for the poor Ausgepfaendeten besieged then heaps of his
door, the men pleaded for leniency, the women sought heart to soften the stone, and the children
whimpered a bit of bread, but when he was a few good Fleischer had purchased dogs, cats heard
this music, as he called it, soon, and he whistled and rushed, and the beggars were flying apart screaming.
Most complaints he made the "old woman". But this was none other than Mother Mrs. Munk, Peter. She
had fallen into distress and misery, as one house and yard had sold her and her son when he was essentially
returned to rich, had not looked for her. As she came occasionally, old, weak and frail, a
stick in front of the house. She it never dared, because he had once chased away, but she did
hurt, other people have to live by good deeds, as the son of her own age would have helped prepare a care.
But the cold heart was never touched by the sight of the pale, well-known trains, from the pleading
eyes of the withered, outstretched hand, from the frail figure, sullen, he moved when she knocked
on the door on Saturdays, Sechsbaetzner a piece that suggested him in a paper and told him
to transcend by a servant. He heard her voice trembling when she thanked him and wished that he may
well go on earth, he heard the coughing Tuere sneak by, but he thought
no more about it further than that he once spent six lump free.

At last Peter also to marry at the thought. He knew that all the Black Forest like any father he
would give his daughter in, but it was difficult in his choice, because he wanted to be lucky
herein and should also praise his intellect, so he rode around the entire forest, looked here ,
looked there, and none of the beautiful Black interior forests seemed nice enough for him. Finally,
after all Tanzboeden looked in vain for Sweetest had to, he heard one day, the Beautiful and virtuous
in the entire forest is a poor wood-maker's daughter. They still live and for themselves, get
you sent to her father's house and busy, and be never seen on the dance floor, not even at Pentecost
or fair. When Peter heard of this miracle of the Black Forest, he decided to advertise it
to, and rode to the hut, which had called him. The father of Lisbeth nice gentleman greeted with
surprise and astonishment to make even more when he heard it be it
the rich Mr Peter and he wanted to be his son.

He did not hesitate too long because he thought all his care and poverty will now have an end, said,
without Lisbeth to ask the beautiful and the good child was so docile that it Mrs. Peter Munk was
no contradiction. But it was the poor not as good as she had dreamed of himself. She thought her household
understand well, but they could Peter nothing to you do Lord had compassion for poor people, and
as her wedded lord was rich, she thought it was not a sin, a poor beggar a penny or an old man
a rich liquor to, but when Peter saw this one day, he said, with angry looks and rough voice,
"Why do you verschleuderst my fortune to rags and Strassenlaeufer? what Did you bring into the
house, give away that you could? your father's beggary With heat no one soup, and throw the money out
like a princess? Again let you enter, you shall feel my hand! " The nice Lisbeth cried in her room over her
husband's hard sense, and she often wished rather be home with her
father in his humble cottage, than with the rich but stingy, hard-hearted
Peter to live.

Oh, she would have known that he have a heart of marble, and neither she nor any human can love,
they would have probably not surprised. So often it but now the Tuere sat down, and it went begging
man intoxicated, and took off his hat and he lifted up his parable, so she squeezed her eyes to
those watching the misery of not, she clenched her hand tighter, so they do not involuntarily The
pocket drive, a Kreuzerlein herauszulangen.

So it was that the beautiful forest Lisbeth was decried in the whole and it was said that she is still
stingy as Peter Munk. But one day his wife Elizabeth was sitting again in front of the house and
exciting, and murmured to one song, for she was gay, because nice weather, and Peter had gone
out over the field. Because of the way is a little old man, therefore, that wears a big, heavy bag,
and she hears from afar panting already. Sympathy to Mrs. Lisbeth sees him and thinks such a little
old man should not be more difficult to recharge Sun Indes gasps and staggers up the little man,
and when it was compared by his wife Elizabeth, broke it in the sack together almost. "Oh, have mercy,
woman, and I shall reach a drink of water!" said the little man. "I got no further, must languish
miserably." "But at your age you should not take more difficult way," said Elizabeth. "Yes,
if I did not have to go messenger, half the poverty and life around my periods," he replied, "Oh, a
rich woman as you do not know what woe poverty does and how good a cool drink in this heat." When they heard
this, they hurried into the house, took a jar from the shelf and filled it with water, but when
she returned and was only a few steps from him yet and saw this little
man, as is so miserable and stunted the bag was sitting on, because
they did feel intimate sympathy, thought that not even her husband
was home, and so she put the jug aside, took a cup and filled it
with wine, put a good rye bread on it and took it to the ancients.

"So, and a sip of wine you like better pious than water, since you are so very old already," she said,
"but not drink it so quickly and eat some bread to" the little man looked at her in amazement, to
large tears in his eyes were old, drank it and then said: "I am old, but I've seen a few people,
would be so kind and so nice and cordial to donate their gifts' d like you, Elizabeth. But it
is for you very well go on earth, such a heart will not go unrewarded. "" No, and the wages
they should have the body, "cried a terrible voice, and when they
looked around, it was Mr Peter with blood-red face."

And even my honor wine you pour out to beggars, and my mouth cup you give to the lips of the
Strassenlaeufer? Here, take your wages! " Mrs. Lisbeth plunged to his feet and begged for forgiveness,
but the stony heart knew no pity, he turned to the whip, which he
held in his hand, and smote them with the handle of ebony so violently
against the beautiful brow that lifeless the old man sank into the
arms.

When he saw this, it was, as indeed repented on the spot, he stooped
down to look and see if there in it was life, but the little man said,
a well known voice, "Give you any trouble, Kohl Peter; it was the
most beautiful and loveliest flower in the Black Forest, but you crush
it, and never more will it bloom again.

"As important all the blood from Peter's cheeks, and he said:" So is it you, Mr. Treasurer? Well, what
happened is done, and it has so have to come. I hope, however, you do not will the court view as
a murderer. "" Wretch!

" replied the Glasmaennlein. "What would my pious when I mortal Huelle to the gallows drug; yours?
Not sold earthly courts are the ones who fear for you, but other and more restrictive, because
you have to Boesen your soul." "And I have my heart is sold, "cried Peter," so nobody is to blame
as you and your deceitful treasures, thou hast mind malicious destruction led into me, pushed me,
that I sought help at another, and on you is all the responsibility. " But no sooner had he
said this, grew and swelled and Glasmaennlein was high and wide, and his eyes will have to
be big as soup plates, and his mouth was like a heated oven, and
flames flashed out of it.

Peter threw himself on his knees, and his heart of stone not protected him, not that his limbs
were trembling like an aspen. With vulture talons forest spirit seized him in the neck, turned
him around like a whirlwind, dry leaves, and threw him to the ground that his ribs cracked all.
"Earth worm!" he cried in a voice that rolled like thunder, "I could
crush you if I wanted, for you have sinned against the Lord of the
forest.

But to
this dead woman's sake, which fed and watered me, I'll give you eight day period. Bekehrst
you not you for the better, I will come and crush your bones, and
you go back to your sins.

"It was already evening, when some men who passed by, the rich Peter Munk saw the earth are at. She
turned around and looked to see whether he was still breathing in, but her long search was in vain.
At last one in the house, and brought water and sprinkled him. Then Peter took a deep breath,
groaned, and struck on the eyes, gazed long of him around and then asked his wife Elizabeth,
but no one had seen them. He thanked the men for their help, sneaked into his house and searched
everywhere, but his wife Elizabeth was either the basement or on the ground, and that which he
held for a terrible dream, was a bitter truth. As he is all alone was because he came strange
thoughts, and he was afraid of nothing, because his heart was cold, but when he thought of his
wife's death - he was his own demise in mind, and as he charged would
pass away, a heavy burden with tears of the poor, with a thousand
of their curses, which could not soften his heart, with the misery
of the poor, to which he rushed his dog, charged with the quiet despair
of his mother, with the blood of the beautiful, good Lisbeth, and
he could But not even the old man, her father, give account if he
came and asked: "Where is my daughter, your wife?"

How he wanted to have one other question, the woods, all the lakes, mountains and all belong
to people's lives? It tormented him at night in a dream, and every moment he woke up on a sweet
of voice, cried to him: "Peter, get thyself a warmer heart!

" And if he was awake, but he concluded Lisbeth his eyes again, because the voice was that it Mrs. quickly,
quietly called out to him that warning. The other day he went to the inn to divert his thoughts,
and there he met the thick Ezekiel.

He sat down with him, they said this and that, by the beautiful weather, war, from the taxes and,
finally, of death and how here and there one had died so quickly. Then
Peter asked the fat, what he think about death then, and how it would
be after.

Ezekiel replied that they bury the body, mind, but go either to heaven or down to hell. "So you
bury your heart too? " Peter asked the curious. "Certainly that is buried." "But when heart no longer
has to be one?" Peter continued. Ezekiel looked at these terrible words. "What do you mean? Will
you tease me? Do you think I have a heart?" "Oh, enough heart, as hard as stone," said Peter.
Ezekiel saw him in wonder, looked around to see if it had heard no one, and then said: "How do you
know it? Or maybe the beats yours no more" "It beats no more, at least not here in my breast!" Peter Munk
said. "But tell me, because now you know what I mean, how it will go with our hearts?" "What do you
takes care of this fellow? Ezekiel said, laughing. "Did so fully to life on earth and that is
enough. That's just the comfortable in our cold hearts, that we fear no attacks against such thoughts."
"Very true, but one thinks about it, and if I now no fear know more,
I know it probably still remember how much I am afraid of hell when
I was a small, innocent boy.

"" Well - well we will not just go, "said Ezekiel. "Have asked about it once a schoolmaster, who told
me that the death of the hearts are weighed according to how difficult it far had sinned. The
slight increase to the heavy down fall, and I think our stones will have a good weight "." Oh,
certainly, "replied Peter," and I am often uncomfortable even if my heart is so listless and
quite indifferent when I think of such things. "So they said, but the next night he heard
five or six times a familiar voice whisper in his ear that: "Peter, procure a warmer heart," He
felt no remorse, that he killed, but when the servants said that his wife was away, he always thought
this: "Where they may well be gone? " Six days he had so driven, and always he heard at night, this
voice, and he always thought of the forest spirit and his terrible threat, but on the seventh day he
jumped from his bed and cried: "Well, I will see if I I can create a warmer, for the indifferent
stone in my chest makes my life just dull and dreary. " He moved quickly Sunday best at his and sat
on his horse and rode pine wood with this. In the pine forest where the trees were thick, he sat
down, tied horse to be and went step to the summit of the hill too fast, and when he before the thick
fir stand, he began saying his "Treasurer in the green pine forest, annual Are hundreds of old,
is yours all 'land, where are pine, allows Sunday only children see
you."

There came Glasmaennlein this out, but not friendly and confidential as usual, but bleak and sad,
and it had a little coat of black glass, and a crape fluttered down from the hat on, and Peter knew
well to whom he mourned. "What do you want from me, Peter Munk? it asked in a muffled voice. "I have one
wish, Mr. Treasurer," Peter replied with downcast eyes.

"heart of stone Can still wish?" said the other. "You did all you needs for your bad sense, and I will
hardly satisfy your desire." "But you promised me three wishes, one I have ever left." "But can
I refuse him if he foolish, "continued Wood Spirit continued the," but all right, wants to hear me, what
you want. "" So I Take dead rock out to and give me my living heart,
"said Peter."

Did I trade you made with ? asked the Glasmaennlein, "I am the Hollaender-Michel, the wealth and
cold hearts gives?

There, with him your you heart looking for have to."

"Oh, he is there never back," said Peter.

"I pity you, so bad you are too, "said the little man, after some
reflection.

"But because your desire is not stupid, so I can give you my help, at least not fail. Then listen.
Your heart can you get with no more violence, but by stratagem, and
it may not schwerhalten, because Michel is only the stupid Michel,
although he seems very smart.

Then go for it straight up and do as I you hot! "And he taught him everything and gave him a little
cross made of pure glass," On life, he can not hurt you, and he will leave you free, if you hold him to
this and will pray.

And you know what you require, receive, come to me again to this place,
"Peter Munk took the little cross, memorized all the words to memory
and went on to Hollaender-Michel's house.

He called three times his name, and straightway the giant stood before
him.

"You killed your wife?" he asked him with a terrible laugh. "Had it done so, she has brought fortune
to the beggar-thy people. But you'll time out of the country will have to some up, because it
will make noise when they are not there, and you need most money
and come to fetch it?

"" You've guessed it, "said Peter," and only right much time, because after America is far away.
"Michel went ahead and took him to his cabin, where he finished on a chest, which was a lot of money, and
reached out whole rolls of gold.

 The
Romans themselves, the most powerful and enlightened nation of the globe, had renounced their
ancient superstition; and, if the ruin of their empire seemed to accuse the efficacy of the
new faith, the disgrace was already retrieved by the conversion of the victorious Goths. The
valiant and fortunate Barbarians, who subdued the provinces of the West, successively received,
and reflected, the same edifying example. Before the age of Charlemagne, the Christian nations
of Europe might exult in the exclusive possession of the temperate climates, of the fertile
lands, which produced corn, wine, and oil; while the savage idolaters, and their helpless idols,
were confined to the extremities of the earth, the dark and frozen regions of the North.

Christianity, which opened the gates of Heaven to the Barbarians, introduced an important change
in their moral and political condition. They received, at the same time, the use of letters,
so essential to a religion whose doctrines are contained in a sacred book; and while they studied
the divine truth, their minds were insensibly enlarged by the distant view of history, of nature,
of the arts, and of society. The version of the Scriptures into their native tongue, which
had facilitated their conversion, must excite among their clergy some curiosity to read the
original text, to understand the sacred liturgy of the church, and to examine, in the writings
of the fathers, the chain of ecclesiastical tradition. These spiritual gifts were preserved
in the Greek and Latin languages, which concealed the inestimable monuments of ancient learning.
The immortal productions of Virgil, Cicero, and Livy, which were accessible to the Christian
Barbarians, maintained a silent intercourse between the reign of Augustus and the times of
Clovis and Charlemagne. The emulation of mankind was encouraged by the remembrance of a more
perfect state; and the flame of science was secretly kept alive, to warm and enlighten the
mature age of the Western world. In the most corrupt state of Christianity, the Barbarians
might learn justice from the law, and mercy from the gospel; and if the knowledge of their
duty was insufficient to guide their actions, or to regulate their passions, they were sometimes
restrained by conscience, and frequently punished by remorse. But the direct authority of religion
was less effectual than the holy communion, which united them with their Christian brethren
in spiritual friendship. The influence of these sentiments contributed to secure their fidelity
in the service, or the alliance, of the Romans, to alleviate the horrors of war, to moderate
the insolence of conquest, and to preserve, in the downfall of the empire, a permanent respect
for the name and institutions of Rome. In the days of Paganism, the priests of Gaul and Germany
reigned over the people, and controlled the jurisdiction of the magistrates; and the zealous
proselytes transferred an equal, or more ample, measure of devout obedience, to the pontiffs
of the Christian faith. The sacred character of the bishops was supported by their temporal
possessions; they obtained an honorable seat in the legislative assemblies of soldiers and
freemen; and it was their interest, as well as their duty, to mollify, by peaceful counsels,
the fierce spirit of the Barbarians. The perpetual correspondence of the Latin clergy, the
frequent pilgrimages to Rome and Jerusalem, and the growing authority of the popes, cemented
the union of the Christian republic, and gradually produced the similar manners, and common
jurisprudence, which have distinguished, from the rest of mankind, the independent, and even
hostile, nations of modern Europe.

But the operation of these causes was checked and retarded by the unfortunate accident, which
infused a deadly poison into the cup of Salvation. Whatever might be the early sentiments of
Ulphilas, his connections with the empire and the church were formed during the reign of Arianism.
The apostle of the Goths subscribed the creed of Rimini; professed with freedom, and perhaps
with sincerity, that the Son was not equal, or consubstantial to the Father; communicated these
errors to the clergy and people; and infected the Barbaric world with a heresy, which the great
Theodosius proscribed and extinguished among the Romans. The temper and understanding of the
new proselytes were not adapted to metaphysical subtilties; but they strenuously maintained,
what they had piously received, as the pure and genuine doctrines of Christianity. The advantage
of preaching and expounding the Scriptures in the Teutonic language promoted the apostolic
labors of Ulphilas and his successors; and they ordained a competent number of bishops and
presbyters for the instruction of the kindred tribes. The Ostrogoths, the Burgundians, the
Suevi, and the Vandals, who had listened to the eloquence of the Latin clergy, preferred the
more intelligible lessons of their domestic teachers; and Arianism was adopted as the national
faith of the warlike converts, who were seated on the ruins of the Western empire. This irreconcilable
difference of religion was a perpetual source of jealousy and hatred; and the reproach of Barbarian
was imbittered by the more odious epithet of Heretic. The heroes of the North, who had submitted,
with some reluctance, to believe that all their ancestors were in hell, were astonished and
exasperated to learn, that they themselves had only changed the mode of their eternal condemnation.
Instead of the smooth applause, which Christian kings are accustomed to expect from their royal
prelates, the orthodox bishops and their clergy were in a state of opposition to the Arian
courts; and their indiscreet opposition frequently became criminal, and might sometimes be
dangerous. The pulpit, that safe and sacred organ of sedition, resounded with the names of
Pharaoh and Holofernes; the public discontent was inflamed by the hope or promise of a glorious
deliverance; and the seditious saints were tempted to promote the accomplishment of their own
predictions. Notwithstanding these provocations, the Catholics of Gaul, Spain, and Italy, enjoyed,
under the reign of the Arians, the free and peaceful exercise of their religion. Their haughty
masters respected the zeal of a numerous people, resolved to die at the foot of their altars;
and the example of their devout constancy was admired and imitated by the Barbarians themselves.
The conquerors evaded, however, the disgraceful reproach, or confession, of fear, by attributing
their toleration to the liberal motives of reason and humanity; and while they affected the
language, they imperceptibly imbibed the spirit, of genuine Christianity.

The peace of the church was sometimes interrupted. The Catholics were indiscreet, the Barbarians
were impatient; and the partial acts of severity or injustice, which had been recommended by
the Arian clergy, were exaggerated by the orthodox writers. The guilt of persecution may be
imputed to Euric, king of the Visigoths; who suspended the exercise of ecclesiastical, or,
at least, of episcopal functions; and punished the popular bishops of Aquitain with imprisonment,
exile, and confiscation. But the cruel and absurd enterprise of subduing the minds of a whole
people was undertaken by the Vandals alone. Genseric himself, in his early youth, had renounced
the orthodox communion; and the apostate could neither grant, nor expect, a sincere forgiveness.
He was exasperated to find that the Africans, who had fled before him in the field, still presumed
to dispute his will in synods and churches; and his ferocious mind was incapable of fear or
of compassion. His Catholic subjects were oppressed by intolerant laws and arbitrary punishments.
The language of Genseric was furious and formidable; the knowledge of his intentions might
justify the most unfavorable interpretation of his actions; and the Arians were reproached
with the frequent executions which stained the palace and the dominions of the tyrant. Arms
and ambition were, however, the ruling passions of the monarch of the sea. But Hunneric, his
inglorious son, who seemed to inherit only his vices, tormented the Catholics with the same
unrelenting fury which had been fatal to his brother, his nephews, and the friends and favorites
of his father; and even to the Arian patriarch, who was inhumanly burnt alive in the midst
of Carthage. The religious war was preceded and prepared by an insidious truce; persecution
was made the serious and important business of the Vandal court; and the loathsome disease
which hastened the death of Hunneric, revenged the injuries, without contributing to the deliverance,
of the church. The throne of Africa was successively filled by the two nephews of Hunneric;
by Gundamund, who reigned about twelve, and by Thrasimund, who governed the nation about twenty-seven,
years. Their administration was hostile and oppressive to the orthodox party. Gundamund appeared
to emulate, or even to surpass, the cruelty of his uncle; and, if at length he relented, if
he recalled the bishops, and restored the freedom of Athanasian worship, a premature death
intercepted the benefits of his tardy clemency. His brother, Thrasimund, was the greatest and
most accomplished of the Vandal kings, whom he excelled in beauty, prudence, and magnanimity
of soul. But this magnanimous character was degraded by his intolerant zeal and deceitful clemency.
Instead of threats and tortures, he employed the gentle, but efficacious, powers of seduction.
Wealth, dignity, and the royal favor, were the liberal rewards of apostasy; the Catholics,
who had violated the laws, might purchase their pardon by the renunciation of their faith;
and whenever Thrasimund meditated any rigorous measure, he patiently waited till the indiscretion
of his adversaries furnished him with a specious opportunity. Bigotry was his last sentiment
in the hour of death; and he exacted from his successor a solemn oath, that he would never
tolerate the sectaries of Athanasius. But his successor, Hilderic, the gentle son of the savage
Hunneric, preferred the duties of humanity and justice to the vain obligation of an impious
oath; and his accession was gloriously marked by the restoration of peace and universal freedom.
The throne of that virtuous, though feeble monarch, was usurped by his cousin Gelimer, a zealous
Arian: but the Vandal kingdom, before he could enjoy or abuse his power, was subverted by the
arms of Belisarius; and the orthodox party retaliated the injuries which they had endured.

The passionate declamations of the Catholics, the sole historians of this persecution, cannot
afford any distinct series of causes and events; any impartial view of the characters, or counsels;
but the most remarkable circumstances that deserve either credit or notice, may be referred
to the following heads; I. In the original law, which is still extant, Hunneric expressly declares,
(and the declaration appears to be correct,) that he had faithfully transcribed the regulations
and penalties of the Imperial edicts, against the heretical congregations, the clergy, and
the people, who dissented from the established religion. If the rights of conscience had been
understood, the Catholics must have condemned their past conduct or acquiesced in their actual
suffering. But they still persisted to refuse the indulgence which they claimed. While they
trembled under the lash of persecution, they praised the laudable severity of Hunneric himself,
who burnt or banished great numbers of Manichæans; and they rejected, with horror, the ignominious
compromise, that the disciples of Arius and of Athanasius should enjoy a reciprocal and similar
toleration in the territories of the Romans, and in those of the Vandals. II. The practice
of a conference, which the Catholics had so frequently used to insult and punish their obstinate
antagonists, was retorted against themselves. At the command of Hunneric, four hundred and
sixty-six orthodox bishops assembled at Carthage; but when they were admitted into the hall
of audience, they had the mortification of beholding the Arian Cyrila exalted on the patriarchal
throne. The disputants were separated, after the mutual and ordinary reproaches of noise and
silence, of delay and precipitation, of military force and of popular clamor. One martyr and
one confessor were selected among the Catholic bishops; twenty-eight escaped by flight, and
eighty-eight by conformity; forty-six were sent into Corsica to cut timber for the royal navy;
and three hundred and two were banished to the different parts of Africa, exposed to the insults
of their enemies, and carefully deprived of all the temporal and spiritual comforts of life.
The hardships of ten years' exile must have reduced their numbers; and if they had complied
with the law of Thrasimund, which prohibited any episcopal consecrations, the orthodox church
of Africa must have expired with the lives of its actual members. They disobeyed, and their
disobedience was punished by a second exile of two hundred and twenty bishops into Sardinia;
where they languished fifteen years, till the accession of the gracious Hilderic. The two islands
were judiciously chosen by the malice of their Arian tyrants. Seneca, from his own experience,
has deplored and exaggerated the miserable state of Corsica, and the plenty of Sardinia was
overbalanced by the unwholesome quality of the air. III. The zeal of Generic and his successors,
for the conversion of the Catholics, must have rendered them still more jealous to guard the
purity of the Vandal faith. Before the churches were finally shut, it was a crime to appear
in a Barbarian dress; and those who presumed to neglect the royal mandate were rudely dragged
backwards by their long hair. The palatine officers, who refused to profess the religion of
their prince, were ignominiously stripped of their honors and employments; banished to Sardinia
and Sicily; or condemned to the servile labors of slaves and peasants in the fields of Utica.
In the districts which had been peculiarly allotted to the Vandals, the exercise of the Catholic
worship was more strictly prohibited; and severe penalties were denounced against the guilt
both of the missionary and the proselyte. By these arts, the faith of the Barbarians was preserved,
and their zeal was inflamed: they discharged, with devout fury, the office of spies, informers,
or executioners; and whenever their cavalry took the field, it was the favorite amusement of
the march to defile the churches, and to insult the clergy of the adverse faction. IV. The
citizens who had been educated in the luxury of the Roman province, were delivered, with exquisite
cruelty, to the Moors of the desert. A venerable train of bishops, presbyters, and deacons,
with a faithful crowd of four thousand and ninety-six persons, whose guilt is not precisely
ascertained, were torn from their native homes, by the command of Hunneric. During the night
they were confined, like a herd of cattle, amidst their own ordure: during the day they pursued
their march over the burning sands; and if they fainted under the heat and fatigue, they were
goaded, or dragged along, till they expired in the hands of their tormentors. These unhappy
exiles, when they reached the Moorish huts, might excite the compassion of a people, whose
native humanity was neither improved by reason, nor corrupted by fanaticism: but if they escaped
the dangers, they were condemned to share the distress of a savage life. V. It is incumbent
on the authors of persecution previously to reflect, whether they are determined to support
it in the last extreme. They excite the flame which they strive to extinguish; and it soon
becomes necessary to chastise the contumacy, as well as the crime, of the offender. The fine,
which he is unable or unwilling to discharge, exposes his person to the severity of the law;
and his contempt of lighter penalties suggests the use and propriety of capital punishment.
Through the veil of fiction and declamation we may clearly perceive, that the Catholics more
especially under the reign of Hunneric, endured the most cruel and ignominious treatment. Respectable
citizens, noble matrons, and consecrated virgins, were stripped naked, and raised in the air
by pulleys, with a weight suspended at their feet. In this painful attitude their naked bodies
were torn with scourges, or burnt in the most tender parts with red-hot plates of iron. The
amputation of the ears the nose, the tongue, and the right hand, was inflicted by the Arians;
and although the precise number cannot be defined, it is evident that many persons, among whom
a bishop and a proconsul may be named, were entitled to the crown of martyrdom. The same honor
has been ascribed to the memory of Count Sebastian, who professed the Nicene creed with unshaken
constancy; and Genseric might detest, as a heretic, the brave and ambitious fugitive whom he
dreaded as a rival. VI. A new mode of conversion, which might subdue the feeble, and alarm
the timorous, was employed by the Arian ministers. They imposed, by fraud or violence, the
rites of baptism; and punished the apostasy of the Catholics, if they disclaimed this odious
and profane ceremony, which scandalously violated the freedom of the will, and the unity of
the sacrament. The hostile sects had formerly allowed the validity of each other's baptism;
and the innovation, so fiercely maintained by the Vandals, can be imputed only to the example
and advice of the Donatists. VII. The Arian clergy surpassed in religious cruelty the king
and his Vandals; but they were incapable of cultivating the spiritual vineyard, which they
were so desirous to possess. A patriarch might seat himself on the throne of Carthage; some
bishops, in the principal cities, might usurp the place of their rivals; but the smallness
of their numbers, and their ignorance of the Latin language, disqualified the Barbarians for
the ecclesiastical ministry of a great church; and the Africans, after the loss of their orthodox
pastors, were deprived of the public exercise of Christianity. VIII. The emperors were the
natural protectors of the Homoousian doctrine; and the faithful people of Africa, both as Romans
and as Catholics, preferred their lawful sovereignty to the usurpation of the Barbarous heretics.
During an interval of peace and friendship, Hunneric restored the cathedral of Carthage; at
the intercession of Zeno, who reigned in the East, and of Placidia, the daughter and relict
of emperors, and the sister of the queen of the Vandals. But this decent regard was of short
duration; and the haughty tyrant displayed his contempt for the religion of the empire, by
studiously arranging the bloody images of persecution, in all the principal streets through
which the Roman ambassador must pass in his way to the palace. An oath was required from the
bishops, who were assembled at Carthage, that they would support the succession of his son
Hilderic, and that they would renounce all foreign or transmarine correspondence. This engagement,
consistent, as it should seem, with their moral and religious duties, was refused by the more
sagacious members of the assembly. Their refusal, faintly colored by the pretence that it is
unlawful for a Christian to swear, must provoke the suspicions of a jealous tyrant.

Chapter XXXVII: Conversion Of The Barbarians To Christianity.--Part IV.

The Catholics, oppressed by royal and military force, were far superior to their adversaries
in numbers and learning. With the same weapons which the Greek and Latin fathers had already
provided for the Arian controversy, they repeatedly silenced, or vanquished, the fierce and
illiterate successors of Ulphilas. The consciousness of their own superiority might have raised
them above the arts and passions of religious warfare. Yet, instead of assuming such honorable
pride, the orthodox theologians were tempted, by the assurance of impunity, to compose fictions,
which must be stigmatized with the epithets of fraud and forgery. They ascribed their own polemical
works to the most venerable names of Christian antiquity; the characters of Athanasius and
Augustin were awkwardly personated by Vigilius and his disciples; and the famous creed, which
so clearly expounds the mysteries of the Trinity and the Incarnation, is deduced, with strong
probability, from this African school. Even the Scriptures themselves were profaned by their
rash and sacrilegious hands. An allegorical interpretation, in the form, perhaps, of a marginal
note, invaded the text of the Latin Bibles, which were renewed and corrected in a dark period
of ten centuries. After the invention of printing, the editors of the Greek Testament yielded
to their own prejudices, or those of the times; and the pious fraud, which was embraced with
equal zeal at Rome and at Geneva, has been infinitely multiplied in every country and every
language of modern Europe.

The example of fraud must excite suspicion: and the specious miracles by which the African
Catholics have defended the truth and justice of their cause, may be ascribed, with more reason,
to their own industry, than to the visible protection of Heaven. Yet the historian, who views
this religious conflict with an impartial eye, may condescend to mention one preternatural
event, which will edify the devout, and surprise the incredulous. Tipasa, a maritime colony
of Mauritania, sixteen miles to the east of Cæsarea, had been distinguished, in every age,
by the orthodox zeal of its inhabitants. They had braved the fury of the Donatists; they resisted,
or eluded, the tyranny of the Arians. The town was deserted on the approach of an heretical
bishop: most of the inhabitants who could procure ships passed over to the coast of Spain;
and the unhappy remnant, refusing all communion with the usurper, still presumed to hold their
pious, but illegal, assemblies. Their disobedience exasperated the cruelty of Hunneric. A military
count was despatched from Carthage to Tipasa: he collected the Catholics in the Forum, and,
in the presence of the whole province, deprived the guilty of their right hands and their tongues.
But the holy confessors continued to speak without tongues; and this miracle is attested by
Victor, an African bishop, who published a history of the persecution within two years after
the event. "If any one," says Victor, "should doubt of the truth, let him repair to Constantinople,
and listen to the clear and perfect language of Restitutus, the sub-deacon, one of these glorious
sufferers, who is now lodged in the palace of the emperor Zeno, and is respected by the devout
empress." At Constantinople we are astonished to find a cool, a learned, and unexceptionable
witness, without interest, and without passion. Æneas of Gaza, a Platonic philosopher, has
accurately described his own observations on these African sufferers. "I saw them myself: I
heard them speak: I diligently inquired by what means such an articulate voice could be formed
without any organ of speech: I used my eyes to examine the report of my ears; I opened their
mouth, and saw that the whole tongue had been completely torn away by the roots; an operation
which the physicians generally suppose to be mortal." It has given me in my life as a stab in the
heart of man as been nothing repulsive face .-- His presence moved me the blood I have in front
of the people with secret anguish .-- - If he comes to the door once inside, Looks he so derisively
Drein And half .-- It is always angered him written on his forehead, that he does not love a
soul like "& c. So I say near," And she understands the physiognomy
masterly, my presence is in her, she do not know how, My M aeskchen
there hidden meaning, you feels that I most certainly a genius, perhaps
the most vicious am not ".

Intended to be with this idea Gretchen?

If it is caught in the vicinity of a being who just says that God denied her? Is it an unpleasant
odor, a sultry air to it near scared does mean? Is it childish sense, the devil earlier guesses
to as the already fallen man, such as dogs and horses nightly ghost
shy away when they do not see him too?

No - it's just my own face, which makes them scared, so scared that she says: "- where he may
only come to us, my 'I feel I love you anymore not. "- Why now this? Why should the devil face
a cut that everyone inspires mistrust, the shrink, rather than the sin, according to the habitual
terms, is alluring charm can see. Who has not about the wonderful contours
of Goethe's Faust Retsch seen the genius!

Certainly, even the devil must have joy in such a work of art.

A few
strokes, a few Puenktchen form the lovely, thoughtful face of the
child, chaste Gretchen, Faust in the perfect flower of a man standing
next to her, what dignity still in the fallen Goettersohn!

But the painter follows the idea of the poet, and, behold, a monster in human shape standing next
to those lovely pictures. The unpleasant forms of arid body that the parched face, ugly nose,
the deep-set eyes, the distorted mouth - away from this image that
has so often been irritated me, already.

[footnote: Permit me a small note here. If I'm not mistaken, here we caught the devil on a greater
vanity than you should trust him almost, certainly it has nothing to those applied against
revered poet, as he it with something ugly is as vibrant colors, this observation is the more
probable when one remembers that he cited in the second section itself
admits that by his incarnation some vanity gone is it in; Master Urian
adopt by the way by the excessive zeal with which he deformity alleges
his, a nakedness that it should not beigehen would have.].

And
why are these ugly form ask? me again. Therefore, I answer because of the so-about his work floating
poet, his Satan anthropomorphosiert; high around the fallen ANGEL
worthy enough to represent Goethe, he dresses him in the form of a
deeply fallen M en tion n. The sin has its body, thin, unpleasant
made ugly . in his face all have passions and dug it disfigured visage,
from the hollow eye sprays the greenish flame of envy, greed, and
the mouth is repugnant, malicious, such as that of a miserable, everything
Nice has already cost the earth and now from saturating the mouth
turns up about it, the innocence, it is probably not its staining
in close because its trains over these shudders.

Thus, the poet because he a bad man before his eyes, had painted a poor devil. Or is roughly
in the mythology of Mr von Goethe, the devil could not even look different now that he could,
his form does not turn his face? "No, we read:" The culture, the world licked all, has the devil
extends; The Nordic Phantom is now to look no more, Where do you see horns, tail and claws? You
call me Mr. Baron, the matter is good, I'm cavalier as other cavaliers. "And in another place
he gives me my face a" Maeskchen call "a and consequently he can be a mask, can transform himself,
but as I said, the poet is content to maintain the Nordic P hantom yet, only that he "H Oerner
me, S K tepid" dispensed chweifund. This is the image of Mephistopheles, this is Goethe's devil,
northern phantom is that to introduce myself. Man Can now one of the poet so highly by such a low creature,
which their mask suspicious going through already, be led destruction
ins?

Keep that great spirit that yet in his case, the other towering high, he may one habitual "Brother
song by Erlich," as Mephisto which identifies itself to be drawn down? And - this must not mask the
e dignity of that tragedy entry do? But I say nothing. Taken place to change things is nothing
to revered, and my Grandmother would say to me about this subject: "My little son! Diabolik! Remember
that a great poet, great audience and have a large audience to get one, it must be possible as a popular one.
"* * * * * CHAPTER XVII. The visit with all this remains. Faust a sublime poem, and G œthe one of the
first minds of his time, and it is not surprising, therefore, that I felt a great desire in me, this
man once to see.

I would have him visit can make an unexpected, yes, if I right about
my annoying caricature was often, I was on the point of him in the
costume of Mephistopheles once at night to appear to him in the limbs
to hunt some horror, but a certain good nature, you found me at times,
held me back from ever, man a sleepless night to make the old one.

I decided,
therefore, as an honorable title Doctor on trips to visit him, ing process,
and as such I came in at Weimar. It is with famous people as with a
strange animal.

If an honest Paechter
with his family in the city to the fair, so is his first that he is the
servant of the tavern in question, "When you can see the lions, lad?"
"Sir," replied the host, "the monkey and the seal days are all to
have the lion but is best placed on when he has food in his body,
so I advise you to go to that time."

Just so I was taken in Weimar. I went from a young American Jena
over with.

Even
in his country was the poet's fame had penetrated longest, and he was on the big tour through
Europe, the famous man of honor has a circuit of twenty miles. In the inn, where we descended,
we were asked once, what time of Goethe, we could occur at Lord? We were traveling clothes, which
by my companions had become something very insignificant.

The landlord looked at us with suspicious eyes and asked, therefore, before he answered our
question remains whether we would also dress coats with us. We were fortunately both equipped with
it, and our landlord promised that log to let us at once. "They will probably after dinner, at five
Clock be accepted. At this time, His Excellency is the best so to speak. Doubt also do not want you to
be accepted, because if you, as the Lord here, especially so from America Weimar is, it would
still ruthless, unseen again send away one.

"This patriotism was really very far. But we were the good man in the belief that the young Philadelphians
recta come to Weimar and from there go home again. Besides, he had prophesied correctly: Doctor Supfer
ing process, as I called myself, and Forthill from America were ordered on five Clock. At last
the hour, we were on the road.

The poet lives very nice.

A smooth, tasteful, decorated with statues of stairs leads to him.

A deep and mysterious silence lay on the hallway, we entered. leaded
us in silence of the servants in the visiting room.

Comfortable elegance, delicacy and subtlety, combined with dignity, drew from this room. My
young companion looked at this in amazement walls, these pictures, these Meubles. So he had probably
not imagined ichter tuebchendes D S that. The admiration of these environments also seemed to
fear the size of the expected rise. All nuances of red changed to his pleasant face. His heart beat
audibly, his eyes were rigidly fixed on the door, which had to enter through the Celebrated. I
had leisure enough, however, to think about the great man. How much further, I said to myself,
how infinitely more spirit help the mortals as gifts of the accidental
radiance of birth.

The son of an insignificant citizen of Frankfurt has here the highest level reached, the man
habitual course of things is open to the.

It has already climbed some of this level. Geschaeftsmaenner by the trade have of the humble cookie
Tuere all seats through their colleges, until finally the chair that is initially at the throne, she took
up in his arms. Some people has won the battle on the portfolio - Goethe has broken its own railway,
on which no one preceded him, he still is not accepted. He has proved that man can, what he wants.
For me to say nothing of a comprehensive All the genius, of a spirit
that made his age, it gradually was being held at the higher - the
age has made him.

I can probably still think, what a hopeless life "Werther" in Germany
was the love.

The Lotte seemed as if by magic from the soil to grow. The number of Werther was legion. But
what was Goethe's merit in this? Had it really only missing the fact that he put the horns to
his mouth, and the first sound he stated, had to priest and layman, nun and ladies in their
strange antics of St. Vitus dance start at? What is the name of that great creative unions secret? A
lleszurrechten Z egg t. The "Siegwart" had defrosted the hard hearts and they all kind for misery,
for moonlight and Graeber receptive done, here comes Goethe - The
door opened, - he came.

Three times we bent down deep - and then dared, up to wink at him. A nice, stately old man! Eyes
so clear and bright as that of a young man, his forehead full sovereignty, his mouth full of dignity
and grace. He was dressed in a fine, black dress, and from his breast shone a nicer star .-- But
he made us not much time to such considerations. With the turn of a fine man of the world, the
daily lot of admirers with her looks so, he invited us to sit down.

What I was for a donkey was so habitual mask to it to go into this! Doctores Legent he might have
seen many hundreds already. Americans who, like our host said, to please him on the lake were certainly
a few. Thus it happened that he is usually my companions conversed with. I would have been but
for a learned Iroquois or a beautiful spirit of Mississippi issued
by!

I had only wonderful things do not can tell him how his fame to the Ohio penetrated beyond just in
Cabanes of the Louisiana about him and his "Wilhelm Meister" to talk? - So I was given some minor
phrases, and my happy companion was allowed to entertain the great man. How wrong are often the
terms, which one of the conversation with makes a great man! If he is known as a wit, so one
imagines when he is visited for the first time, a kind of electrical machine to approach.
It flatters him, it is believed, he should beat wit spark of themselves then radiate, like the black cats,
if given at night for backing-strokes. If he is a novelist, so perk to an interesting story, that
of Famous for entertainment only fast shake out of the sleeve will. Is he even a playwright, he
tells us, perhaps friendly to the plan with a new tragedy to which
we can offer all our friends back then warm.

Is he now a full head like Goethe, one of the saddles is fair to say in all so - as interesting
as instructive entertainment needs! How much you have to collect
but also to satisfy him!

The
Americans thought so before he sat next to Goethe. His ego added, as the good Walt, before the Flitt came
[Footnote: Jean Paul's] adolescence, scared up in all four brain
ventricles and to the bottom in both chambers of the heart as a mouse
around to it tasty Ideenkoernchen raise one he he present and could
happen for a snack.

He looked anxiously on the lips of the poet, so his word will be no, as the candidate with the
strict on examiner, and he crumpled hat together his own and breaks off a glazed glove into small pieces.
But what a hundredweight of stone did the heart come to him, the poet as a its heights and descended
to him with him as Hans Kunz said, and in the pub. He said, namely with him on the good weather
in America, and by about the ratio of the winds on the air, the vapors of water-rich in America to
those in our old Europe spread, he showed us that the universe of science dawned had him in
for he was not just a lyric and epic poet, linguist and novelist,
comedy and tragedy, poet, biographer (his own) and translator - no,
he was even meteorologist!

Who can boast of so deep into the mysterious realm of knowledge to be penetrated? Who can say that
his language, that is not his native dialect, but what he would like to be straight and to talk with
each value can fluently! I think if I would have him as a traveling chef for listed, he would have
learned with me in discussions about a mysterious composition Gaenseleberpastete admitted to or after
a Sekundenuhr calculates how long you have to cook steak on each side one. So about the beautiful
Weather in America we speak, and lo - the Armesuendergesicht the American brightened, the floodgates
opened his eloquence - he described the fine, soft rain of Canada, he had the Fruehlingsstuerme
roar of New York and praised the umbrella factory in the Franklin
Street in Philadelphia.

It was the end of me, as I do would be to not Goethe, but in an inn
in good old fellow, and it would in a bottle of beer over the weather
is spoken at, so human, so cordial was our discourse, but that is
precisely the great mystery of the conversation that you become accustomed
to - not to speak well, but good to hear n. If you have less educated
time and space gives the talk, when this face makes one, listen to
it carefully as to his honey words, he will later enthusiastically
proclaim with that one at such and such a flavorful talk.

     
     This did the experienced poet and instead of us his wealth a mite
     leave of, he preferred to us weather observations to discuss
     with. After we ennuyiert might have adequately him, he gave the
     signal to get up, the chairs were moved, Huete taken and we sent
us to make our Abschiedskomplimente.

The good man had no idea that he quote the devil, as he wished magnanimous me also to see themselves
in too, I said to him, and I will still keep its time already, for truly I have not swallowed his
Mephistopheles. Only one - two bows, we left.

Silent and still quite stupid admiration of the Americans followed me to the inn, and the redness of the lively
discourse was still on his cheek, sometimes sneaked a smile approvingly at his mouth, he seemed
satisfied with hoechst On a visit to our room arrived. he threw himself heroically on a chair and two bottles
of champagne let apply. The cork was driving with a fun shot to the ceiling, the American replied to two
glasses, offered me the one and pushed to the welfare of that great poet. "Is it not something pleasant,"
he said, "be found, Glorious Men are like like us? "I was uneasy and afraid of a genius who wrote
volumes of thirty, I must confess, at the storm that covered us in the open sea, I was not afraid.
And how condescending he was, as he has sensibly with us diskuriert
the joy he had in me as I came out of the new country!

" He poured himself a hard working and drank it on his and the poet's health, and the witnessed
grace and a haze of sparkling wine, he fell at last with the determination to be America's Goethe
to sleep in her arms. But I sat down to rest the bottles. This wine is from the earth of all drinks,
which pleases me most on his lighter, volatile spirit of the little earthly gravity with them
leads like this is making him worthy of spirits when they visit the earth in human body, to
be tasted . I had to smile when I looked at the happy Schlaefer, how easy it is for a great people,
people happy to make the other, and be allowed to submit only when they had him pretty much the
same, and they come from the mind almost . * * * * * THE FESTTAGE in purgatory. A Sketch. "The
greatest happiness of the historian can, is that the dead do not protest against their views." World and time.
I. CHAPTER XVIII

.
 The fortune of nations has often depended
on accidents; and France may ascribe her greatness to the premature death of the Gothic king,
at a time when his son Alaric was a helpless infant, and his adversary Clovis an ambitious
and valiant youth.

While Childeric, the father of Clovis, lived an exile in Germany, he was hospitably entertained
by the queen, as well as by the king, of the Thuringians. After his restoration, Basina escaped
from her husband's bed to the arms of her lover; freely declaring, that if she had known a
man wiser, stronger, or more beautiful, than Childeric, that man should have been the object
of her preference. Clovis was the offspring of this voluntary union; and, when he was no more
than fifteen years of age, he succeeded, by his father's death, to the command of the Salian
tribe. The narrow limits of his kingdom were confined to the island of the Batavians, with
the ancient dioceses of Tournay and Arras; and at the baptism of Clovis the number of his warriors
could not exceed five thousand. The kindred tribes of the Franks, who had seated themselves
along the Belgic rivers, the Scheld, the Meuse, the Moselle, and the Rhine, were governed by
their independent kings, of the Merovingian race; the equals, the allies, and sometimes the
enemies of the Salic prince. But the Germans, who obeyed, in peace, the hereditary jurisdiction
of their chiefs, were free to follow the standard of a popular and victorious general; and
the superior merit of Clovis attracted the respect and allegiance of the national confederacy.
When he first took the field, he had neither gold and silver in his coffers, nor wine and corn
in his magazine; but he imitated the example of Cæsar, who, in the same country, had acquired
wealth by the sword, and purchased soldiers with the fruits of conquest. After each successful
battle or expedition, the spoils were accumulated in one common mass; every warrior received
his proportionable share; and the royal prerogative submitted to the equal regulations of military
law. The untamed spirit of the Barbarians was taught to acknowledge the advantages of regular
discipline. At the annual review of the month of March, their arms were diligently inspected;
and when they traversed a peaceful territory, they were prohibited from touching a blade of
grass. The justice of Clovis was inexorable; and his careless or disobedient soldiers were
punished with instant death. It would be superfluous to praise the valor of a Frank; but the
valor of Clovis was directed by cool and consummate prudence. In all his transactions with
mankind, he calculated the weight of interest, of passion, and of opinion; and his measures
were sometimes adapted to the sanguinary manners of the Germans, and sometimes moderated by
the milder genius of Rome, and Christianity. He was intercepted in the career of victory, since
he died in the forty-fifth year of his age: but he had already accomplished, in a reign of
thirty years, the establishment of the French monarchy in Gaul.

The first exploit of Clovis was the defeat of Syagrius, the son of Ægidius; and the public
quarrel might, on this occasion, be inflamed by private resentment. The glory of the father
still insulted the Merovingian race; the power of the son might excite the jealous ambition
of the king of the Franks. Syagrius inherited, as a patrimonial estate, the city and diocese
of Soissons: the desolate remnant of the second Belgic, Rheims and Troyes, Beauvais and Amiens,
would naturally submit to the count or patrician: and after the dissolution of the Western
empire, he might reign with the title, or at least with the authority, of king of the Romans.
As a Roman, he had been educated in the liberal studies of rhetoric and jurisprudence; but
he was engaged by accident and policy in the familiar use of the Germanic idiom. The independent
Barbarians resorted to the tribunal of a stranger, who possessed the singular talent of explaining,
in their native tongue, the dictates of reason and equity. The diligence and affability of
their judge rendered him popular, the impartial wisdom of his decrees obtained their voluntary
obedience, and the reign of Syagrius over the Franks and Burgundians seemed to revive the original
institution of civil society. In the midst of these peaceful occupations, Syagrius received,
and boldly accepted, the hostile defiance of Clovis; who challenged his rival in the spirit,
and almost in the language, of chivalry, to appoint the day and the field of battle. In the
time of Cæsar Soissons would have poured forth a body of fifty thousand horse and such an army
might have been plentifully supplied with shields, cuirasses, and military engines, from the
three arsenals or manufactures of the city. But the courage and numbers of the Gallic youth
were long since exhausted; and the loose bands of volunteers, or mercenaries, who marched under
the standard of Syagrius, were incapable of contending with the national valor of the Franks.
It would be ungenerous without some more accurate knowledge of his strength and resources,
to condemn the rapid flight of Syagrius, who escaped, after the loss of a battle, to the distant
court of Thoulouse. The feeble minority of Alaric could not assist or protect an unfortunate
fugitive; the pusillanimous Goths were intimidated by the menaces of Clovis; and the Roman
king, after a short confinement, was delivered into the hands of the executioner. The Belgic
cities surrendered to the king of the Franks; and his dominions were enlarged towards the East
by the ample diocese of Tongres which Clovis subdued in the tenth year of his reign.

The name of the Alemanni has been absurdly derived from their imaginary settlement on the banks
of the Leman Lake. That fortunate district, from the lake to the Avenche, and Mount Jura, was
occupied by the Burgundians. The northern parts of Helvetia had indeed been subdued by the
ferocious Alemanni, who destroyed with their own hands the fruits of their conquest. A province,
improved and adorned by the arts of Rome, was again reduced to a savage wilderness; and some
vestige of the stately Vindonissa may still be discovered in the fertile and populous valley
of the Aar. From the source of the Rhine to its conflux with the Mein and the Moselle, the
formidable swarms of the Alemanni commanded either side of the river, by the right of ancient
possession, or recent victory. They had spread themselves into Gaul, over the modern provinces
of Alsace and Lorraine; and their bold invasion of the kingdom of Cologne summoned the Salic
prince to the defence of his Ripuarian allies. Clovis encountered the invaders of Gaul in the
plain of Tolbiac, about twenty-four miles from Cologne; and the two fiercest nations of Germany
were mutually animated by the memory of past exploits, and the prospect of future greatness.
The Franks, after an obstinate struggle, gave way; and the Alemanni, raising a shout of victory,
impetuously pressed their retreat. But the battle was restored by the valor, and the conduct,
and perhaps by the piety, of Clovis; and the event of the bloody day decided forever the alternative
of empire or servitude. The last king of the Alemanni was slain in the field, and his people
were slaughtered or pursued, till they threw down their arms, and yielded to the mercy of the
conqueror. Without discipline it was impossible for them to rally: they had contemptuously
demolished the walls and fortifications which might have protected their distress; and they
were followed into the heart of their forests by an enemy not less active, or intrepid, than
themselves. The great Theodoric congratulated the victory of Clovis, whose sister Albofleda
the king of Italy had lately married; but he mildly interceded with his brother in favor of
the suppliants and fugitives, who had implored his protection. The Gallic territories, which
were possessed by the Alemanni, became the prize of their conqueror; and the haughty nation,
invincible, or rebellious, to the arms of Rome, acknowledged the sovereignty of the Merovingian
kings, who graciously permitted them to enjoy their peculiar manners and institutions, under
the government of official, and, at length, of hereditary, dukes. After the conquest of the
Western provinces, the Franks alone maintained their ancient habitations beyond the Rhine.
They gradually subdued, and civilized, the exhausted countries, as far as the Elbe, and the
mountains of Bohemia; and the peace of Europe was secured by the obedience of Germany.

Till the thirtieth year of his age, Clovis continued to worship the gods of his ancestors.
His disbelief, or rather disregard, of Christianity, might encourage him to pillage with less
remorse the churches of a hostile territory: but his subjects of Gaul enjoyed the free exercise
of religious worship; and the bishops entertained a more favorable hope of the idolater, than
of the heretics. The Merovingian prince had contracted a fortunate alliance with the fair Clotilda,
the niece of the king of Burgundy, who, in the midst of an Arian court, was educated in the
profession of the Catholic faith. It was her interest, as well as her duty, to achieve the
conversion of a Pagan husband; and Clovis insensibly listened to the voice of love and religion.
He consented (perhaps such terms had been previously stipulated) to the baptism of his eldest
son; and though the sudden death of the infant excited some superstitious fears, he was persuaded,
a second time, to repeat the dangerous experiment. In the distress of the battle of Tolbiac,
Clovis loudly invoked the God of Clotilda and the Christians; and victory disposed him to hear,
with respectful gratitude, the eloquent Remigius, bishop of Rheims, who forcibly displayed
the temporal and spiritual advantages of his conversion. The king declared himself satisfied
of the truth of the Catholic faith; and the political reasons which might have suspended his
public profession, were removed by the devout or loyal acclamations of the Franks, who showed
themselves alike prepared to follow their heroic leader to the field of battle, or to the baptismal
font. The important ceremony was performed in the cathedral of Rheims, with every circumstance
of magnificence and solemnity that could impress an awful sense of religion on the minds of
its rude proselytes. The new Constantine was immediately baptized, with three thousand of his
warlike subjects; and their example was imitated by the remainder of the gentle Barbarians,
who, in obedience to the victorious prelate, adored the cross which they had burnt, and burnt
the idols which they had formerly adored. The mind of Clovis was susceptible of transient fervor:
he was exasperated by the pathetic tale of the passion and death of Christ; and, instead of
weighing the salutary consequences of that mysterious sacrifice, he exclaimed, with indiscreet
fury, "Had I been present at the head of my valiant Franks, I would have revenged his injuries."
But the savage conqueror of Gaul was incapable of examining the proofs of a religion, which
depends on the laborious investigation of historic evidence and speculative theology. He was
still more incapable of feeling the mild influence of the gospel, which persuades and purifies
the heart of a genuine convert. His ambitious reign was a perpetual violation of moral and
Christian duties: his hands were stained with blood in peace as well as in war; and, as soon
as Clovis had dismissed a synod of the Gallican church, he calmly assassinated all the princes
of the Merovingian race. Yet the king of the Franks might sincerely worship the Christian God,
as a Being more excellent and powerful than his national deities; and the signal deliverance
and victory of Tolbiac encouraged Clovis to confide in the future protection of the Lord of
Hosts. Martin, the most popular of the saints, had filled the Western world with the fame of
those miracles which were incessantly performed at his holy sepulchre of Tours. His visible
or invisible aid promoted the cause of a liberal and orthodox prince; and the profane remark
of Clovis himself, that St. Martin was an expensive friend, need not be interpreted as the
symptom of any permanent or rational scepticism. But earth, as well as heaven, rejoiced in
the conversion of the Franks. On the memorable day when Clovis ascended from the baptismal
font, he alone, in the Christian world, deserved the name and prerogatives of a Catholic king.
The emperor Anastasius entertained some dangerous errors concerning the nature of the divine
incarnation; and the Barbarians of Italy, Africa, Spain, and Gaul, were involved in the Arian
heresy. The eldest, or rather the only, son of the church, was acknowledged by the clergy as
their lawful sovereign, or glorious deliverer; and the armies of Clovis were strenuously supported
by the zeal and fervor of the Catholic faction.

Under the Roman empire, the wealth and jurisdiction of the bishops, their sacred character,
and perpetual office, their numerous dependants, popular eloquence, and provincial assemblies,
had rendered them always respectable, and sometimes dangerous. Their influence was augmented
with the progress of superstition; and the establishment of the French monarchy may, in some
degree, be ascribed to the firm alliance of a hundred prelates, who reigned in the discontented,
or independent, cities of Gaul. The slight foundations of the Armorican republic had been repeatedly
shaken, or overthrown; but the same people still guarded their domestic freedom; asserted the
dignity of the Roman name; and bravely resisted the predatory inroads, and regular attacks,
of Clovis, who labored to extend his conquests from the Seine to the Loire. Their successful
opposition introduced an equal and honorable union. The Franks esteemed the valor of the Armoricans
and the Armoricans were reconciled by the religion of the Franks. The military force which
had been stationed for the defence of Gaul, consisted of one hundred different bands of cavalry
or infantry; and these troops, while they assumed the title and privileges of Roman soldiers,
were renewed by an incessant supply of the Barbarian youth. The extreme fortifications, and
scattered fragments of the empire, were still defended by their hopeless courage. But their
retreat was intercepted, and their communication was impracticable: they were abandoned by
the Greek princes of Constantinople, and they piously disclaimed all connection with the Arian
usurpers of Gaul. They accepted, without shame or reluctance, the generous capitulation, which
was proposed by a Catholic hero; and this spurious, or legitimate, progeny of the Roman legions,
was distinguished in the succeeding age by their arms, their ensigns, and their peculiar dress
and institutions. But the national strength was increased by these powerful and voluntary accessions;
and the neighboring kingdoms dreaded the numbers, as well as the spirit, of the Franks. The
reduction of the Northern provinces of Gaul, instead of being decided by the chance of a single
battle, appears to have been slowly effected by the gradual operation of war and treaty and
Clovis acquired each object of his ambition, by such efforts, or such concessions, as were
adequate to its real value. His savage character, and the virtues of Henry IV., suggest the
most opposite ideas of human nature; yet some resemblance may be found in the situation of
two princes, who conquered France by their valor, their policy, and the merits of a seasonable
conversion.

The kingdom of the Burgundians, which was defined by the course of two Gallic rivers, the Saone
and the Rhône, extended from the forest of Vosges to the Alps and the sea of Marseilles. The
sceptre was in the hands of Gundobald. That valiant and ambitious prince had reduced the number
of royal candidates by the death of two brothers, one of whom was the father of Clotilda; but
his imperfect prudence still permitted Godegesil, the youngest of his brothers, to possess
the dependent principality of Geneva. The Arian monarch was justly alarmed by the satisfaction,
and the hopes, which seemed to animate his clergy and people after the conversion of Clovis;
and Gundobald convened at Lyons an assembly of his bishops, to reconcile, if it were possible,
their religious and political discontents. A vain conference was agitated between the two factions.
The Arians upbraided the Catholics with the worship of three Gods: the Catholics defended their
cause by theological distinctions; and the usual arguments, objections, and replies were reverberated
with obstinate clamor; till the king revealed his secret apprehensions, by an abrupt but decisive
question, which he addressed to the orthodox bishops. "If you truly profess the Christian religion,
why do you not restrain the king of the Franks? He has declared war against me, and forms alliances
with my enemies for my destruction. A sanguinary and covetous mind is not the symptom of a
sincere conversion: let him show his faith by his works." The answer of Avitus, bishop of Vienna,
who spoke in the name of his brethren, was delivered with the voice and countenance of an angel.
"We are ignorant of the motives and intentions of the king of the Franks: but we are taught
by Scripture, that the kingdoms which abandon the divine law are frequently subverted; and
that enemies will arise on every side against those who have made God their enemy. Return,
with thy people, to the law of God, and he will give peace and security to thy dominions."
The king of Burgundy, who was not prepared to accept the condition which the Catholics considered
as essential to the treaty, delayed and dismissed the ecclesiastical conference; after reproaching
his bishops, that Clovis, their friend and proselyte, had privately tempted the allegiance
of his brother.

Chapter XXXVIII: Reign Of Clovis.--Part II.

The allegiance of his brother was already seduced; and the obedience of Godegesil, who joined
the royal standard with the troops of Geneva, more effectually promoted the success of the
conspiracy. While the Franks and Burgundians contended with equal valor, his seasonable desertion
decided the event of the battle; and as Gundobald was faintly supported by the disaffected
Gauls, he yielded to the arms of Clovis, and hastily retreated from the field, which appears
to have been situate between Langres and Dijon. He distrusted the strength of Dijon, a quadrangular
fortress, encompassed by two rivers, and by a wall thirty feet high, and fifteen thick, with
four gates, and thirty-three towers: he abandoned to the pursuit of Clovis the important cities
of Lyons and Vienna; and Gundobald still fled with precipitation, till he had reached Avignon,
at the distance of two hundred and fifty miles from the field of battle. A long siege and an
artful negotiation, admonished the king of the Franks of the danger and difficulty of his enterprise.
He imposed a tribute on the Burgundian prince, compelled him to pardon and reward his brother's
treachery, and proudly returned to his own dominions, with the spoils and captives of the southern
provinces. This splendid triumph was soon clouded by the intelligence, that Gundobald had violated
his recent obligations, and that the unfortunate Godegesil, who was left at Vienna with a garrison
of five thousand Franks, had been besieged, surprised, and massacred by his inhuman brother.
Such an outrage might have exasperated the patience of the most peaceful sovereign; yet the
conqueror of Gaul dissembled the injury, released the tribute, and accepted the alliance, and
military service, of the king of Burgundy. Clovis no longer possessed those advantages which
had assured the success of the preceding war; and his rival, instructed by adversity, had found
new resources in the affections of his people. The Gauls or Romans applauded the mild and impartial
laws of Gundobald, which almost raised them to the same level with their conquerors. The bishops
were reconciled, and flattered, by the hopes, which he artfully suggested, of his approaching
conversion; and though he eluded their accomplishment to the last moment of his life, his moderation
secured the peace, and suspended the ruin, of the kingdom of Burgundy.

I am impatient to pursue the final ruin of that kingdom, which was accomplished under the reign
of Sigismond, the son of Gundobald. The Catholic Sigismond has acquired the honors of a saint
and martyr; but the hands of the royal saint were stained with the blood of his innocent son,
whom he inhumanly sacrificed to the pride and resentment of a step-mother. He soon discovered
his error, and bewailed the irreparable loss. While Sigismond embraced the corpse of the unfortunate
youth, he received a severe admonition from one of his attendants: "It is not his situation,
O king! it is thine which deserves pity and lamentation." The reproaches of a guilty conscience
were alleviated, however, by his liberal donations to the monastery of Agaunum, or St. Maurice,
in Vallais; which he himself had founded in honor of the imaginary martyrs of the Thebæan legion.
A full chorus of perpetual psalmody was instituted by the pious king; he assiduously practised
the austere devotion of the monks; and it was his humble prayer, that Heaven would inflict
in this world the punishment of his sins. His prayer was heard: the avengers were at hand:
and the provinces of Burgundy were overwhelmed by an army of victorious Franks. After the event
of an unsuccessful battle, Sigismond, who wished to protract his life that he might prolong
his penance, concealed himself in the desert in a religious habit, till he was discovered and
betrayed by his subjects, who solicited the favor of their new masters. The captive monarch,
with his wife and two children, was transported to Orleans, and buried alive in a deep well,
by the stern command of the sons of Clovis; whose cruelty might derive some excuse from the
maxims and examples of their barbarous age. Their ambition, which urged them to achieve the
conquest of Burgundy, was inflamed, or disguised, by filial piety: and Clotilda, whose sanctity
did not consist in the forgiveness of injuries, pressed them to revenge her father's death
on the family of his assassin. The rebellious Burgundians (for they attempted to break their
chains) were still permitted to enjoy their national laws under the obligation of tribute and
military service; and the Merovingian princes peaceably reigned over a kingdom, whose glory
and greatness had been first overthrown by the arms of Clovis.

The first victory of Clovis had insulted the honor of the Goths. They viewed his rapid progress
with jealousy and terror; and the youthful fame of Alaric was oppressed by the more potent
genius of his rival. Some disputes inevitably arose on the edge of their contiguous dominions;
and after the delays of fruitless negotiation, a personal interview of the two kings was proposed
and accepted. The conference of Clovis and Alaric was held in a small island of the Loire,
near Amboise. They embraced, familiarly conversed, and feasted together; and separated with
the warmest professions of peace and brotherly love. But their apparent confidence concealed
a dark suspicion of hostile and treacherous designs; and their mutual complaints solicited,
eluded, and disclaimed, a final arbitration. At Paris, which he already considered as his royal
seat, Clovis declared to an assembly of the princes and warriors, the pretence, and the motive,
of a Gothic war. "It grieves me to see that the Arians still possess the fairest portion of
Gaul. Let us march against them with the aid of God; and, having vanquished the heretics, we
will possess and divide their fertile provinces." The Franks, who were inspired by hereditary
valor and recent zeal, applauded the generous design of their monarch; expressed their resolution
to conquer or die, since death and conquest would be equally profitable; and solemnly protested
that they would never shave their beards till victory should absolve them from that inconvenient
vow. The enterprise was promoted by the public or private exhortations of Clotilda. She reminded
her husband how effectually some pious foundation would propitiate the Deity, and his servants:
and the Christian hero, darting his battle-axe with a skilful and nervous band, "There, (said
he,) on that spot where my Francisca, shall fall, will I erect a church in honor of the holy
apostles." This ostentatious piety confirmed and justified the attachment of the Catholics,
with whom he secretly corresponded; and their devout wishes were gradually ripened into a formidable
conspiracy. The people of Aquitain were alarmed by the indiscreet reproaches of their Gothic
tyrants, who justly accused them of preferring the dominion of the Franks: and their zealous
adherent Quintianus, bishop of Rodez, preached more forcibly in his exile than in his diocese.
To resist these foreign and domestic enemies, who were fortified by the alliance of the Burgundians,
Alaric collected his troops, far more numerous than the military powers of Clovis. The Visigoths
resumed the exercise of arms, which they had neglected in a long and luxurious peace; a select
band of valiant and robust slaves attended their masters to the field; and the cities of Gaul
were compelled to furnish their doubtful and reluctant aid. Theodoric, king of the Ostrogoths,
who reigned in Italy, had labored to maintain the tranquillity of Gaul; and he assumed, or
affected, for that purpose, the impartial character of a mediator. But the sagacious monarch
dreaded the rising empire of Clovis, and he was firmly engaged to support the national and
religious cause of the Goths.

The accidental, or artificial, prodigies which adorned the expedition of Clovis, were accepted
by a superstitious age, as the manifest declaration of the divine favor. He marched from Paris;
and as he proceeded with decent reverence through the holy diocese of Tours, his anxiety tempted
him to consult the shrine of St. Martin, the sanctuary and the oracle of Gaul. His messengers
were instructed to remark the words of the Psalm which should happen to be chanted at the precise
moment when they entered the church. Those words most fortunately expressed the valor and victory
of the champions of Heaven, and the application was easily transferred to the new Joshua, the
new Gideon, who went forth to battle against the enemies of the Lord. Orleans secured to the
Franks a bridge on the Loire; but, at the distance of forty miles from Poitiers, their progress
was intercepted by an extraordinary swell of the River Vigenna or Vienne; and the opposite
banks were covered by the encampment of the Visigoths. Delay must be always dangerous to Barbarians,
who consume the country through which they march; and had Clovis possessed leisure and materials,
it might have been impracticable to construct a bridge, or to force a passage, in the face
of a superior enemy. But the affectionate peasants who were impatient to welcome their deliverer,
could easily betray some unknown or unguarded ford: the merit of the discovery was enhanced
by the useful interposition of fraud or fiction; and a white hart, of singular size and beauty,
appeared to guide and animate the march of the Catholic army. The counsels of the Visigoths
were irresolute and distracted. A crowd of impatient warriors, presumptuous in their strength,
and disdaining to fly before the robbers of Germany, excited Alaric to assert in arms the name
and blood of the conquerors of Rome. The advice of the graver chieftains pressed him to elude
the first ardor of the Franks; and to expect, in the southern provinces of Gaul, the veteran
and victorious Ostrogoths, whom the king of Italy had already sent to his assistance. The decisive
moments were wasted in idle deliberation the Goths too hastily abandoned, perhaps, an advantageous
post; and the opportunity of a secure retreat was lost by their slow and disorderly motions.
After Clovis had passed the ford, as it is still named, of the Hart, he advanced with bold
and hasty steps to prevent the escape of the enemy. His nocturnal march was directed by a flaming
meteor, suspended in the air above the cathedral of Poitiers; and this signal, which might
be previously concerted with the orthodox successor of St. Hilary, was compared to the column
of fire that guided the Israelites in the desert. At the third hour of the day, about ten miles
beyond Poitiers, Clovis overtook, and instantly attacked, the Gothic army; whose defeat was
already prepared by terror and confusion. Yet they rallied in their extreme distress, and the
martial youths, who had clamorously demanded the battle, refused to survive the ignominy of
flight. The two kings encountered each other in single combat. Alaric fell by the hand of his
rival; and the victorious Frank was saved by the goodness of his cuirass, and the vigor of
his horse, from the spears of two desperate Goths, who furiously rode against him to revenge
the death of their sovereign. The vague expression of a mountain of the slain, serves to indicate
a cruel though indefinite slaughter; but Gregory has carefully observed, that his valiant countryman
Apollinaris, the son of Sidonius, lost his life at the head of the nobles of Auvergne. Perhaps
these suspected Catholics had been maliciously exposed to the blind assault of the enemy; and
perhaps the influence of religion was superseded by personal attachment or military honor.

Such is the empire of Fortune, (if we may still disguise our ignorance under that popular name,)
that it is almost equally difficult to foresee the events of war, or to explain their various
consequences. A bloody and complete victory has sometimes yielded no more than the possession
of the field and the loss of ten thousand men has sometimes been sufficient to destroy, in
a single day, the work of ages. The decisive battle of Poitiers was followed by the conquest
of Aquitain. Alaric had left behind him an infant son, a bastard competitor, factious nobles,
and a disloyal people; and the remaining forces of the Goths were oppressed by the general
consternation, or opposed to each other in civil discord. The victorious king of the Franks
proceeded without delay to the siege of Angoulême. At the sound of his trumpets the walls of
the city imitated the example of Jericho, and instantly fell to the ground; a splendid miracle,
which may be reduced to the supposition, that some clerical engineers had secretly undermined
the foundations of the rampart. At Bordeaux, which had submitted without resistance, Clovis
established his winter quarters; and his prudent economy transported from Thoulouse the royal
treasures, which were deposited in the capital of the monarchy. The conqueror penetrated as
far as the confines of Spain; restored the honors of the Catholic church; fixed in Aquitain
a colony of Franks; and delegated to his lieutenants the easy task of subduing, or extirpating,
the nation of the Visigoths. But the Visigoths were protected by the wise and powerful monarch
of Italy. While the balance was still equal, Theodoric had perhaps delayed the march of the
Ostrogoths; but their strenuous efforts successfully resisted the ambition of Clovis; and the
army of the Franks, and their Burgundian allies, was compelled to raise the siege of Arles,
with the loss, as it is said, of thirty thousand men. These vicissitudes inclined the fierce
spirit of Clovis to acquiesce in an advantageous treaty of peace. The Visigoths were suffered
to retain the possession of Septimania, a narrow tract of sea-coast, from the Rhône to the
Pyrenees; but the ample province of Aquitain, from those mountains to the Loire, was indissolubly
united to the kingdom of France.

After the success of the Gothic war, Clovis accepted the honors of the Roman consulship. The
emperor Anastasius ambitiously bestowed on the most powerful rival of Theodoric the title and
ensigns of that eminent dignity; yet, from some unknown cause, the name of Clovis has not been
inscribed in the Fasti either of the East or West. On the solemn day, the monarch of Gaul,
placing a diadem on his head, was invested, in the church of St. Martin, with a purple tunic
and mantle. From thence he proceeded on horseback to the cathedral of Tours; and, as he passed
through the streets, profusely scattered, with his own hand, a donative of gold and silver
to the joyful multitude, who incessantly repeated their acclamations of Consul and Augustus.
The actual or legal authority of Clovis could not receive any new accessions from the consular
dignity. It was a name, a shadow, an empty pageant; and if the conqueror had been instructed
to claim the ancient prerogatives of that high office, they must have expired with the period
of its annual duration. But the Romans were disposed to revere, in the person of their master,
that antique title which the emperors condescended to assume: the Barbarian himself seemed
to contract a sacred obligation to respect the majesty of the republic; and the successors
of Theodosius, by soliciting his friendship, tacitly forgave, and almost ratified, the usurpation
of Gaul.

Twenty-five years after the death of Clovis this important concession was more formally declared,
in a treaty between his sons and the emperor Justinian. The Ostrogoths of Italy, unable to
defend their distant acquisitions, had resigned to the Franks the cities of Arles and Marseilles;
of Arles, still adorned with the seat of a Prætorian præfect, and of Marseilles, enriched by
the advantages of trade and navigation. This transaction was confirmed by the Imperial authority;
and Justinian, generously yielding to the Franks the sovereignty of the countries beyond the
Alps, which they already possessed, absolved the provincials from their allegiance; and established
on a more lawful, though not more solid, foundation, the throne of the Merovingians. From that
era they enjoyed the right of celebrating at Arles the games of the circus; and by a singular
privilege, which was denied even to the Persian monarch, the gold coin, impressed with their
name and image, obtained a legal currency in the empire. A Greek historian of that age has
praised the private and public virtues of the Franks, with a partial enthusiasm, which cannot
be sufficiently justified by their domestic annals. He celebrates their politeness and urbanity,
their regular government, and orthodox religion; and boldly asserts, that these Barbarians
could be distinguished only by their dress and language from the subjects of Rome. Perhaps
the Franks already displayed the social disposition, and lively graces, which, in every age,
have disguised their vices, and sometimes concealed their intrinsic merit. Perhaps Agathias,
and the Greeks, were dazzled by the rapid progress of their arms, and the splendor of their
empire. Since the conquest of Burgundy, Gaul, except the Gothic province of Septimania, was
subject, in its whole extent, to the sons of Clovis. They had extinguished the German kingdom
of Thuringia, and their vague dominion penetrated beyond the Rhine, into the heart of their
native forests. The Alemanni, and Bavarians, who had occupied the Roman provinces of Rhætia
and Noricum, to the south of the Danube, confessed themselves the humble vassals of the Franks;
and the feeble barrier of the Alps was incapable of resisting their ambition. When the last
survivor of the sons of Clovis united the inheritance and conquests of the Merovingians, his
kingdom extended far beyond the limits of modern France. Yet modern France, such has been the
progress of arts and policy, far surpasses, in wealth, populousness, and power, the spacious
but savage realms of Clotaire or Dagobert.

The Franks, or French, are the only people of Europe who can deduce a perpetual succession
from the conquerors of the Western empire. But their conquest of Gaul was followed by ten centuries
of anarchy and ignorance. On the revival of learning, the students, who had been formed in
the schools of Athens and Rome, disdained their Barbarian ancestors; and a long period elapsed
before patient labor could provide the requisite materials to satisfy, or rather to excite,
the curiosity of more enlightened times. At length the eye of criticism and philosophy was
directed to the antiquities of France; but even philosophers have been tainted by the contagion
of prejudice and passion. The most extreme and exclusive systems, of the personal servitude
of the Gauls, or of their voluntary and equal alliance with the Franks, have been rashly conceived,
and obstinately defended; and the intemperate disputants have accused each other of conspiring
against the prerogative of the crown, the dignity of the nobles, or the freedom of the people.
Yet the sharp conflict has usefully exercised the adverse powers of learning and genius; and
each antagonist, alternately vanquished and victorious has extirpated some ancient errors,
and established some interesting truths. An impartial stranger, instructed by their discoveries,
their disputes, and even their faults, may describe, from the same original materials, the
state of the Roman provincials, after Gaul had submitted to the arms and laws of the Merovingian
kings.

The rudest, or the most servile, condition of human society, is regulated, however, by some
fixed and general rules. When Tacitus surveyed the primitive simplicity of the Germans, he
discovered some permanent maxims, or customs, of public and private life, which were preserved
by faithful tradition till the introduction of the art of writing, and of the Latin tongue.
Before the election of the Merovingian kings, the most powerful tribe, or nation, of the Franks,
appointed four venerable chieftains to compose the Salic laws; and their labors were examined
and approved in three successive assemblies of the people. After the baptism of Clovis, he
reformed several articles that appeared incompatible with Christianity: the Salic law was again
amended by his sons; and at length, under the reign of Dagobert, the code was revised and promulgated
in its actual form, one hundred years after the establishment of the French monarchy. Within
the same period, the customs of the Ripuarians were transcribed and published; and Charlemagne
himself, the legislator of his age and country, had accurately studied the two national laws,
which still prevailed among the Franks. The same care was extended to their vassals; and the
rude institutions of the Alemanni and Bavarians were diligently compiled and ratified by the
supreme authority of the Merovingian kings. The Visigoths and Burgundians, whose conquests
in Gaul preceded those of the Franks, showed less impatience to attain one of the principal
benefits of civilized society. Euric was the first of the Gothic princes who expressed, in
writing, the manners and customs of his people; and the composition of the Burgundian laws
was a measure of policy rather than of justice; to alleviate the yoke, and regain the affections,
of their Gallic subjects. Thus, by a singular coincidence, the Germans framed their artless
institutions, at a time when the elaborate system of Roman jurisprudence was finally consummated.
In the Salic laws, and the Pandects of Justinian, we may compare the first rudiments, and the
full maturity, of civil wisdom; and whatever prejudices may be suggested in favor of Barbarism,
our calmer reflections will ascribe to the Romans the superior advantages, not only of science
and reason, but of humanity and justice. Yet the laws of the Barbarians were adapted to their
wants and desires, their occupations and their capacity; and they all contributed to preserve
the peace, and promote the improvement, of the society for whose use they were originally established.
The Merovingians, instead of imposing a uniform rule of conduct on their various subjects,
permitted each people, and each family, of their empire, freely to enjoy their domestic institutions;
nor were the Romans excluded from the common benefits of this legal toleration. The children
embraced the law of their parents, the wife that of her husband, the freedman that of his patron;
and in all causes where the parties were of different nations, the plaintiff or accuser was
obliged to follow the tribunal of the defendant, who may always plead a judicial presumption
of right, or innocence. A more ample latitude was allowed, if every citizen, in the presence
of the judge, might declare the law under which he desired to live, and the national society
to which he chose to belong. Such an indulgence would abolish the partial distinctions of victory:
and the Roman provincials might patiently acquiesce in the hardships of their condition; since
it depended on themselves to assume the privilege, if they dared to assert the character, of
free and warlike Barbarians.

Chapter XXXVIII: Reign Of Clovis.--Part III.

When justice inexorably requires the death of a murderer, each private citizen is fortified
by the assurance, that the laws, the magistrate, and the whole community, are the guardians
of his personal safety. But in the loose society of the Germans, revenge was always honorable,
and often meritorious: the independent warrior chastised, or vindicated, with his own hand,
the injuries which he had offered or received; and he had only to dread the resentment of the
sons and kinsmen of the enemy, whom he had sacrificed to his selfish or angry passions. The
magistrate, conscious of his weakness, interposed, not to punish, but to reconcile; and he
was satisfied if he could persuade or compel the contending parties to pay and to accept the
moderate fine which had been ascertained as the price of blood. The fierce spirit of the Franks
would have opposed a more rigorous sentence; the same fierceness despised these ineffectual
restraints; and, when their simple manners had been corrupted by the wealth of Gaul, the public
peace was continually violated by acts of hasty or deliberate guilt. In every just government
the same penalty is inflicted, or at least is imposed, for the murder of a peasant or a prince.
But the national inequality established by the Franks, in their criminal proceedings, was the
last insult and abuse of conquest. In the calm moments of legislation, they solemnly pronounced,
that the life of a Roman was of smaller value than that of a Barbarian. The Antrustion, a name
expressive of the most illustrious birth or dignity among the Franks, was appreciated at the
sum of six hundred pieces of gold; while the noble provincial, who was admitted to the king's
table, might be legally murdered at the expense of three hundred pieces. Two hundred were deemed
sufficient for a Frank of ordinary condition; but the meaner Romans were exposed to disgrace
and danger by a trifling compensation of one hundred, or even fifty, pieces of gold. Had these
laws been regulated by any principle of equity or reason, the public protection should have
supplied, in just proportion, the want of personal strength. But the legislator had weighed
in the scale, not of justice, but of policy, the loss of a soldier against that of a slave:
the head of an insolent and rapacious Barbarian was guarded by a heavy fine; and the slightest
aid was afforded to the most defenceless subjects. Time insensibly abated the pride of the
conquerors and the patience of the vanquished; and the boldest citizen was taught, by experience,
that he might suffer more injuries than he could inflict. As the manners of the Franks became
less ferocious, their laws were rendered more severe; and the Merovingian kings attempted to
imitate the impartial rigor of the Visigoths and Burgundians. Under the empire of Charlemagne,
murder was universally punished with death; and the use of capital punishments has been liberally
multiplied in the jurisprudence of modern Europe.

The civil and military professions, which had been separated by Constantine, were again united
by the Barbarians. The harsh sound of the Teutonic appellations was mollified into the Latin
titles of Duke, of Count, or of Præfect; and the same officer assumed, within his district,
the command of the troops, and the administration of justice. But the fierce and illiterate
chieftain was seldom qualified to discharge the duties of a judge, which required all the faculties
of a philosophic mind, laboriously cultivated by experience and study; and his rude ignorance
was compelled to embrace some simple, and visible, methods of ascertaining the cause of justice.
In every religion, the Deity has been invoked to confirm the truth, or to punish the falsehood
of human testimony; but this powerful instrument was misapplied and abused by the simplicity
of the German legislators. The party accused might justify his innocence, by producing before
their tribunal a number of friendly witnesses, who solemnly declared their belief, or assurance,
that he was not guilty. According to the weight of the charge, this legal number of compurgators
was multiplied; seventy-two voices were required to absolve an incendiary or assassin: and
when the chastity of a queen of France was suspected, three hundred gallant nobles swore, without
hesitation, that the infant prince had been actually begotten by her deceased husband. The
sin and scandal of manifest and frequent perjuries engaged the magistrates to remove these
dangerous temptations; and to supply the defects of human testimony by the famous experiments
of fire and water. These extraordinary trials were so capriciously contrived, that, in some
cases, guilt, and innocence in others, could not be proved without the interposition of a miracle.
Such miracles were really provided by fraud and credulity; the most intricate causes were determined
by this easy and infallible method, and the turbulent Barbarians, who might have disdained
the sentence of the magistrate, submissively acquiesced in the judgment of God.

But the trials by single combat gradually obtained superior credit and authority, among a warlike
people, who could not believe that a brave man deserved to suffer, or that a coward deserved
to live. Both in civil and criminal proceedings, the plaintiff, or accuser, the defendant,
or even the witness, were exposed to mortal challenge from the antagonist who was destitute
of legal proofs; and it was incumbent on them either to desert their cause, or publicly to
maintain their honor, in the lists of battle. They fought either on foot, or on horseback,
according to the custom of their nation; and the decision of the sword, or lance, was ratified
by the sanction of Heaven, of the judge, and of the people. This sanguinary law was introduced
into Gaul by the Burgundians; and their legislator Gundobald condescended to answer the complaints
and objections of his subject Avitus. "Is it not true," said the king of Burgundy to the bishop,
"that the event of national wars, and private combats, is directed by the judgment of God;
and that his providence awards the victory to the juster cause?" By such prevailing arguments,
the absurd and cruel practice of judicial duels, which had been peculiar to some tribes of
Germany, was propagated and established in all the monarchies of Europe, from Sicily to the
Baltic. At the end of ten centuries, the reign of legal violence was not totally extinguished;
and the ineffectual censures of saints, of popes, and of synods, may seem to prove, that the
influence of superstition is weakened by its unnatural alliance with reason and humanity. The
tribunals were stained with the blood, perhaps, of innocent and respectable citizens; the law,
which now favors the rich, then yielded to the strong; and the old, the feeble, and the infirm,
were condemned, either to renounce their fairest claims and possessions, to sustain the dangers
of an unequal conflict, or to trust the doubtful aid of a mercenary champion. This oppressive
jurisprudence was imposed on the provincials of Gaul, who complained of any injuries in their
persons and property. Whatever might be the strength, or courage, of individuals, the victorious
Barbarians excelled in the love and exercise of arms; and the vanquished Roman was unjustly
summoned to repeat, in his own person, the bloody contest which had been already decided against
his country.

A devouring host of one hundred and twenty thousand Germans had formerly passed the Rhine under
the command of Ariovistus. One third part of the fertile lands of the Sequani was appropriated
to their use; and the conqueror soon repeated his oppressive demand of another third, for the
accommodation of a new colony of twenty-four thousand Barbarians, whom he had invited to share
the rich harvest of Gaul. At the distance of five hundred years, the Visigoths and Burgundians,
who revenged the defeat of Ariovistus, usurped the same unequal proportion of two thirds of
the subject lands. But this distribution, instead of spreading over the province, may be reasonably
confined to the peculiar districts where the victorious people had been planted by their own
choice, or by the policy of their leader. In these districts, each Barbarian was connected
by the ties of hospitality with some Roman provincial. To this unwelcome guest, the proprietor
was compelled to abandon two thirds of his patrimony, but the German, a shepherd and a hunter,
might sometimes content himself with a spacious range of wood and pasture, and resign the smallest,
though most valuable, portion, to the toil of the industrious husbandman. The silence of ancient
and authentic testimony has encouraged an opinion, that the rapine of the Franks was not moderated,
or disguised, by the forms of a legal division; that they dispersed themselves over the provinces
of Gaul, without order or control; and that each victorious robber, according to his wants,
his avarice, and his strength, measured with his sword the extent of his new inheritance. At
a distance from their sovereign, the Barbarians might indeed be tempted to exercise such arbitrary
depredation; but the firm and artful policy of Clovis must curb a licentious spirit, which
would aggravate the misery of the vanquished, whilst it corrupted the union and discipline
of the conquerors. The memorable vase of Soissons is a monument and a pledge of the regular
distribution of the Gallic spoils. It was the duty and the interest of Clovis to provide rewards
for a successful army, settlements for a numerous people; without inflicting any wanton or
superfluous injuries on the loyal Catholics of Gaul. The ample fund, which he might lawfully
acquire, of the Imperial patrimony, vacant lands, and Gothic usurpations, would diminish the
cruel necessity of seizure and confiscation, and the humble provincials would more patiently
acquiesce in the equal and regular distribution of their loss.

The wealth of the Merovingian princes consisted in their extensive domain. After the conquest
of Gaul, they still delighted in the rustic simplicity of their ancestors; the cities were
abandoned to solitude and decay; and their coins, their charters, and their synods, are still
inscribed with the names of the villas, or rural palaces, in which they successively resided.
One hundred and sixty of these palaces, a title which need not excite any unseasonable ideas
of art or luxury, were scattered through the provinces of their kingdom; and if some might
claim the honors of a fortress, the far greater part could be esteemed only in the light of
profitable farms. The mansion of the long-haired kings was surrounded with convenient yards
and stables, for the cattle and the poultry; the garden was planted with useful vegetables;
the various trades, the labors of agriculture, and even the arts of hunting and fishing, were
exercised by servile hands for the emolument of the sovereign; his magazines were filled with
corn and wine, either for sale or consumption; and the whole administration was conducted by
the strictest maxims of private economy. This ample patrimony was appropriated to supply the
hospitable plenty of Clovis and his successors; and to reward the fidelity of their brave companions
who, both in peace and war, were devoted to their persona service. Instead of a horse, or a
suit of armor, each companion, according to his rank, or merit, or favor, was invested with
a benefice, the primitive name, and most simple form, of the feudal possessions. These gifts
might be resumed at the pleasure of the sovereign; and his feeble prerogative derived some
support from the influence of his liberality. But this dependent tenure was gradually abolished
by the independent and rapacious nobles of France, who established the perpetual property,
and hereditary succession, of their benefices; a revolution salutary to the earth, which had
been injured, or neglected, by its precarious masters. Besides these royal and beneficiary
estates, a large proportion had been assigned, in the division of Gaul, of allodial and Salic
lands: they were exempt from tribute, and the Salic lands were equally shared among the male
descendants of the Franks.

In the bloody discord and silent decay of the Merovingian line, a new order of tyrants arose
in the provinces, who, under the appellation of Seniors, or Lords, usurped a right to govern,
and a license to oppress, the subjects of their peculiar territory. I have no hope that we can
durchstehlen us.

"Arise" not me sad, I'm asleep by the courageous become, "said Felix," Hope is not prayer at all,
and you fear treachery, let us now rather of something else and do not talk long enough already
sadly ahead! Mr. Student, you started in the inn, to tell something fahret, away now, because we have
time to chat. ""

Can I hardly remember what it was, "replied the young man," you told
the story of the cold heart, and be stopped, as the host and the other
player the cabbage Peter the Tuere thrown out.

"" Good, now I remember again, "he replied," well, if you will hear more, I will continue ":
The Cold Heart II, it might have about five days have elapsed, while
Felix, Jaeger and the student still caught robbers were sitting under
the.

Although they were the captain and his subordinates well treated, but
they yearned for freedom, for the more time moves away, the, the
higher anxiety also increased their being discovered.

On the evening of the fifth day, explained the Jaeger his fellow
victims, that he was determined that night, break out in, and if it
is also life cost should it.

He
encouraged his companions to same decision and showed them how they
could put into effect their escape.

"The one who initially is us, I take it upon me, and it is necessity, and necessity knows no
law, he must die." dying, "said Felix horrified. "You want to kill him?" "That I am determined,
if it matters to save two lives. Know that I robbers with an anxious expression have the hear
whispering forest will in them touched by, and the old women betrayed in their anger the evil intention
of the gang they swore at us and gave me to understand if the robbers were attacked, so we would
die without mercy. "" God in heaven! "cried the young man horrified and hid his face in his hands."
They still have the knife does not put in the throat, "she continued
the Jaeger," therefore let them beat us !

If it is dark, I crept to the next guard on, they will call and I
will whisper to him, the Countess had suddenly become very ill, and
as he looks around, I run down it.

I get you, from a young man, and the second can then no more escape us, and the third we have
a couple easy game. "The Jaeger looked at these words like this terrible, that Felix was afraid
of him. He wanted to persuade him desist from this bloody thoughts, as the door opened quietly and
quickly slipped in a form. It was the captain. He gently closed again, and waved to the two
prisoners, to keep silent.

He sat down next to Felix, saying: "Mrs. Countess , you are in worse
situation.

Your husband has not kept his word, he has not sent the ransom not only governments but has also
mobilized around, armed crew touches on all sides by the forest to dig me and my people. I have
threatened your husband, kill you if he made as though to attack us, but he must be either your
life is little, or he does not trust our oaths. Your life is in our hands, is forfeited under
our laws. What Will ye said against it?

"Dismayed saw the prisoners down in front, she did not answer, because Felix knew well that
his confession about his disguise, the only further could put in danger. It is impossible to me," continued
the captain gone, "one lady who has my complete respect, so to see in danger. So I will save you a
proposal to make, it's the only way out, which remain is still you:
I will let you get away with."

Surprised surprised Both looked at him, but he went on: "The majority of my fellows is determined
to move to Italy and widespread ties to access services under a. I for my part it pleases not to serve
under a different, and therefore I will not make common cause with them. If you wanted me now give
your word, Madam Countess, gutzusprechen for me, my mighty connections to protect your application,
so I can rid you even before it is too late. "Felix was silent and embarrassed, and his honest
heart resisted, the man , who wanted to save the life of him, deliberately
exposed to a hazard, in which he could not protect afterwards.

When he was still silent, go to the captain continued: "One is currently seeking men everywhere,
and I will be the least satisfied with service. I know that your vermoeget much, but I want nothing
more than your promise to me for this thing to do something.

" "Well then," Felix said with downcast eyes, "I promise you I can do what, what my strength
is in applying to be useful to you. Is it, as ye shall, consolation for me is one that You have
voluntarily withdrawn this Raeuberleben you myself.

"Touched kissed the hand of the captain of this gracious lady, she whispered to still be hours after
nightfall ready two, and then left just as carefully as he had come to the cabin. The prisoners
breathed freely when he was ignored. "Amen!" Jaeger said the "the heart has drawn God, how wonderfully
we are to be saved! If I would have let me dream about that in the world still like something
could happen and that I should meet such an adventure?" "Wonderful, indeed!" said Felix. "But I have
also done well to cheat this man and what can it protect religious?

Saget himself, Jaeger, my words did not attract it to the gallows, if I did not confess who I
am?" "Oh, how can you have such scruples, my dear boy!" replied the student. "After your role
so masterfully played Eure: No, about it should you worry you not, this is nothing less than lawful self-defense.
Did he not sacrilege committed to, a respected woman shamefully led away to try street from, and Had
it not been who knows, how it affects the lives of the Countess stands?

No, you have not done wrong, by the way, I think he is in the courts to win a stone in the board if
he, the head of this rabble, even deliver it. "This latter idea comforted the young goldsmith. Joyfully
and yet full of anxious concern about the success of the plan, they
went through the next hours.

It was already
dark when the captain of a moment in the cabin went on, lay down a bundle clothes and said, "Mrs.
Countess to make our flight, you must create these Maennerkleidung necessary. Machet you're
done! In one hour we enter the march. "After these words he left the prison, and Jaeger had trouble
not laughing out loud." That would be now the second panel "> he said," and I would swear this is
you better than the first! "She opened the bundle and found a cute dress hunting with all the
accessories, the Felix adapted admirably.

After he prepared himself, wanted the Jaeger clothing the Countess in a corner of the cabin throw, Felix,
but there was not, he put a small Bundle together and voiced, he would ask the Graefin, to
give him her, and she then his whole life long memory of these remarkable days to retain. At last
the captain. He was fully armed, and brought the Jaeger rifle, which had been taken from him, and
a powder horn. Even the students he had a gun, and he gave Felix a Hirschfaenger, asking him in
case of need to umzuhaengen. It was a luck for the three that it was very dark, because light would have
looked radiant look with which Felix received this weapon, its true state can betray the robbers.
When they entered the cabin were made of carefully observed the Jaeger that the ordinary items
in the cabin was not occupied at this time. it was possible that
they could slip past unnoticed in huts the Sun; but suggested that
the captain did not habitual path, the one who leads out of the ravine
in the woods off, but he approached a rock, quite vertical, and, it
seemed out of reach lay before them.

When they arrived were there, the captain made a rope ladder attention to the rocks at the herabgespannt
was. He threw his rifle on the back and climbed up first, then he called out to the Countess
to follow him, and offered her hand to help, the hunter came up last. Behind this rock was a
footpath, which they quickly on traveling and went on. "This footpath,"
said the captain, "leads to the Aschaffenburg road.'s where we want
to move us, for I have learned well that your husband, the Count ,
is currently present there.

"Silently, she moved on, the robbers always ahead, the other three
close behind him.

After three hours, stopped them, the captain invited Felix, a tree trunk to sit up, to rest. He
took bread, a bottle out of old wine and offered it to the weary. "I think we will, before an
hour goes by, to meet the cordon, which has moved through the forest
the Military.

In this case, I ask you, leaders of the soldiers to talk with and good treatment for me to ask." Felix
said this, too, although he expected from its use limited success. They rested for half an hour
and then departed. They might have gone about another hour and were already approaching the road,
the day began to come up, and the dawn spread into the forest as their steps suddenly a loud "Halt!
Is on!" were tied.

They held, and five soldiers marched against it before and meant to them, they would follow and
before the commanding Major travel show about her. When she was about fifty steps were gone, she
looked left and right in Gebuesch flash guns, a large crowd the woods seemed to have filled. The Major
was sitting with several other officers and men under an oak tree. Prisoners were brought before
him and as he was about to begin, examine them about the "Where" and "Where", the men jumped on
and called out: "My God, what I see? That's Gottfried, our hunter! "" Yes, Mr. Head! " Jaeger
replied with cheerful voice, "I am, and wonderfully saved from the hands of the poor rabble." The
officers were astonished to see him here, but the Jaeger asked the Major and the bailiff, on the side
to come with him, and told in few words how it and have been who the was, third, what it the
young goldsmith accompanied her. and pleased about this news, made immediate the Major his measures,
the move to make, more important prisoners, the young goldsmith but leaded saved it to his comrades,
he placed the heroic young man before and who by his courage and presence of mind saved've Countess
of, and all shakes Felix happily hand, praised him and could not be tired of him and the Jaeger
their fates tell from to .

But it was totally let daylight. The Major decided that the freed himself up in the city to
accompany: he went with them and the magistrate of the Countess in the next village, where his car
was, and where Felix had to put him in the car, the Jaeger, the student
, the mayor and many other people rode before and behind them, so
they moved to the city in triumph.

Like a wildfire, the rumor had the attack in the forest inn, by the sacrifice of the young goldsmith
in the area of spread, and so now the story went tearing of his liberation from mouth to mouth.
It was not surprising therefore that in the city, where they went, the streets were thronged with
people, wanted to see the heroes of the young. All obtruded themselves as the car slowly hereinfuhr.
"That's him," they cried, see "him there in her car next to the officer! Long live the brave goldsmith
boy!" And a thousand-"Hurrah!" filled the air.

Felix was embarrassed, touched by the roaring delight of the crowd. But a touching sight it was the
town hall on the city before. A man of middle age, in rich robes, received him on the stairs and embraced
him with tears in their eyes. "How can I repay you, my son!" he cried. "You've given a lot when I was
on the point of losing infinite, thou hast my wife, my children's mother saved, for her tender
life would have such a captive does not endure the terror." It was the husband of the Countess, who
spoke these words.

As much as Felix notoriously might, for sacrifice wages to determine his one, so the count seemed
inexorably to want to insist. Then came the unhappy fate of the youth Raeuberhauptmanns the one he
tells how he saved him, had been regarded as the rescue of the Countess actually. The count, not stirred
both by the action of the captain as by the new evidence of a noble disinterestedness, Felix
took off through the choice of his request, promised to do his best
to save the robbers.

On the same day but leaded Count , accompanied by the brave Jaeger, the young goldsmith to his
castle, where the Countess, still concerned about the fate of the
young man who sacrificed himself for her, longingly waited for news.

Who can describe her joy when her husband, the rescuer's hand, stepped into her room? She found no
end, ask him to thank him, she let them produce their children and showed them the high-minded youth,
where her mother owe so much infinity, and the kids took his hands,
and the delicate sense of their child's gratitude, their insurance
that he them father and mother all over the world were to be the dearest
to him the most beautiful compensations for some trouble, for the
sleepless nights cabin of robbers.

When the first moments of the happy reunion had passed in, the Countess beckoned to a servant , who
soon after clothes and the well-known knapsack bringing in those who Felix in the forest inn had left
up to the Countess. "Is" everything she said with a kindly smile, "you set me those terrible moments
given, it is in the spell, so you me, you frame covered by my blindness to beat. Pursuers with
it is to serve you again, but this will I suggestion you make these
clothes I want you to keep the memory of, left up to me and in exchange
for accepting the sum, which the robbers intended to ransom for me.

"Felix was alarmed about the size of this gift, his noble mind reluctant, to accept a salary
for what he did out of free will. "Madam," he said with emotion, "I can not be accepted. The clothes
will be yours, as your befehlet, but the sum of which you speak, not I can accept. But because
I know that your Be pleased to reward me with some more, so get me your grace instead of other
wages, and the case should I come in, needing your help, so you can count on that, so I'll ask
you. "For a long time they urged the young man, but nothing could change his mind. The Countess
and her husband finally gave in, and you little knapsack was the servant of the clothes and
carried away again, as Felix to the jewelry recalled so many joyful scenes which he had forgotten the feeling.
"Stop!" he cried. "Just something you have to allow me to take my knapsack out, madam, the rest is
then completely and totally yours." "Turns at will," she said, "though I like to keep your memory would
have everything, just take ye what about you Be pleased not do without
it!

However, if one may ask, what for you is so dear that you are not left up to me may you? "the
young man had words during his knapsack and opened the box of red morocco out a . "What is mine,
ye can have it all," he replied, smiling, "but this belongs to my dear godmother, I made it
myself and it has to bring her. It is a jewel, madam," continued he, the check box and opened it
hinbot, "a jewel, to which I myself have tried me." She took the check box, but after one look
at little thrown, She hit back. "How?" These stones! " she cried. "And for your sponsor you are determined,
you say?"

"Yes," replied Felix, "My godmother has sent me the stones, I have taken it and am on track to deliver
even them." Touched him, saw the Countess of, tears burst from her eyes. "So are you Nuernberg
Felix Perner from?" she cried. "Yes! But how do you know so fast my name?" asked the young man
and looked at her consternation. "Oh, wonderful providence of heaven!" said she moved to her astonished
husband. "This is Felix, our godson, the son of our maid Sabine! Felix, I am yes, you get wanted,
so you Pate saved yours, without knowing it." "What Are?

Because your the Countess Sandau that so much to me and my mother did to? And this is the castle Mayenburg
where I wander wanted, how I thank the kind fate that makes me wonderfully with meet let you
so, so I gave you but by the act, though to a limited extent, can testify to my great gratitude!
"" You have done me more of ", she replied, 'as I ever would have helped you to do, but as long
as I live, I shall endeavor to show you how very much we all you are guilty. My husband is your
father, my children, your siblings and myself will be your faithful mother, and this jewelry, which
leaded me to you in the hour of supreme necessity, to be ornament my best, for he is me to you
and your generosity always remember. "So said the Countess, and kept his word. It supported the lucky Felix plenty
on his travels.

When he came back as a skilled worker in his art, she bought him a house in Nuremberg, it set up
completely, and no small ornament to his best rooms were beautifully painted pictures, which
the scenes in the forest tavern and Felix's life presented by the robbers. where Felix was living as
a skilled goldsmith, and the glory of his art was combined with the wonderful story of heroism and
his clients gave him throughout the empire. Many foreigners when they passed through the beautiful
city of Nuremberg were, in the workshop of the famous master Felix lead to see him, to admire, probably
nice jewelry for him to appoint one too. The visits were pleasant to him but the Jaeger, the compass-maker,
the student and the truck driver. often the latter of Wuerzburg Fuerth
went to Sun, he spoke with Felix, the hunter brought him almost every
year by the Countess, but let the compass-maker gifts, after he had
wandered countries in all, master down with Felix.

One day she also visited the student. He was, however, a major in the state become a man, felt
ashamed but not Felix and the compass-maker, a dinner to eat master at. They remembered all
the scenes of the forest inn, and the former student said he had Raeuberhauptmann in Italy again
the he have improved entirely and serve as a brave soldier, the king of Naples. Felix rejoiced
when he heard this. Without this man, he would be not in that dangerous
situation might come, but without it he would have consequences not
exempt can also Raeuberhand. And so it happened that the valiant champions
only peaceful and friendly reminders had goldsmith when he thought
back to the inn Spessart.

The legend of the florin Wilhelm Hauff in Upper Swabia still stand today, the walls of a castle
that was once the most imposing of the area, Hohenzollern. It rises on a round, steep hill,
and from its craggy height can be seen far and freely into the country. So far, much further
than the land around you can see this castle, was the brave Zollern
afraid of sex, and their name was familiar and honored one in all
German lands.

Now lived many hundred years ago, I think the gunpowder was not even invented at one of these festivals
Zollern, the nature of a strange man was.

You could not say that he pressured hard or subjects would have lived feud with his neighbors
in his, but no one trusted him about whether the way his dark eyes, his brow crinkled and his taciturn,
morose disposition.

There were few people other than the Schlossgesinde who had ever
hear him speak properly like other people, because when he rode through
the valley, one he met and quickly took off the Hat, is out, and said,
"Good evening, Mr. Graf, today is it is nice weather, "he replied,"
nonsense "or" do already ".

But had not made a quite a bit for him or his horses, farmer met him in a sunken road with the cart,
his horse that he could not enough passers fast, so his anger erupted in a thunder of oaths, but one
has never heard that it occasions a farmer would have beaten such a case. In the area but was called
him "the evil weather Zollern". "The evil weather Zollern" had a wife, which the opponent it
and so gentle and friendly was like a day in May.

Often, they had people who had offended by harsh words wedded lord it by kind words and kind
eyes with him again Reconciled; the poor but they did good where
she could, and had it not annoy, even in hot summer or the steep snow
mountain herabzugehen terrible to or sick children to visit poor people.

Met her in such ways the count, he said sullenly: "White! Stupid stuff."

Some other woman would have deterred or intimidated of being surly, the one would have thought what
I go to the poor people, if my Lord for nonsense holds, the other
from pride or resentment would have the love for such a grumpy husband
might be cool, but not so wife Hedwig von Hohenzollern.

The loved him still after, sought her beautiful white hand the folds of his brown face paint and
loved and honored him, but when a year and a day of sky for a young
Graeflein keepsake brought, she loved her husband no less, by Soehnlein
they nevertheless all the duties of an affectionate mother showed
herself her.

Three years passed and the count of Zollern saw his son only every Sunday after dinner, when he was
proffered by the nurse him.

He then looked at her, muttered something in his beard and gave him the nurse back. However,
as the "father" could say the Small, the count gave the nurse a guilder - the child he was not a
happy face.

On his third birthday, but let the count to his son first put on the stockings and dressed him resplendent
in velvet and silk; Then he ordered, Sable and another nice drive up his horse, took the kids
on the arm and started clanking spurs descend the spiral staircase with.
 Their
gradual improvement in arts, in policy, and at length in religion, encouraged them to imitate,
and to supersede, these foreign institutions; and to compose a code of civil and criminal jurisprudence,
for the use of a great and united people. The same obligations, and the same privileges, were
communicated to the nations of the Spanish monarchy; and the conquerors, insensibly renouncing
the Teutonic idiom, submitted to the restraints of equity, and exalted the Romans to the participation
of freedom. The merit of this impartial policy was enhanced by the situation of Spain under
the reign of the Visigoths. The provincials were long separated from their Arian masters by
the irreconcilable difference of religion. After the conversion of Recared had removed the
prejudices of the Catholics, the coasts, both of the Ocean and Mediterranean, were still possessed
by the Eastern emperors; who secretly excited a discontented people to reject the yoke of the
Barbarians, and to assert the name and dignity of Roman citizens. The allegiance of doubtful
subjects is indeed most effectually secured by their own persuasion, that they hazard more
in a revolt, than they can hope to obtain by a revolution; but it has appeared so natural to
oppress those whom we hate and fear, that the contrary system well deserves the praise of wisdom
and moderation.

While the kingdom of the Franks and Visigoths were established in Gaul and Spain, the Saxons
achieved the conquest of Britain, the third great diocese of the Præfecture of the West. Since
Britain was already separated from the Roman empire, I might, without reproach, decline a story
familiar to the most illiterate, and obscure to the most learned, of my readers. The Saxons,
who excelled in the use of the oar, or the battle-axe, were ignorant of the art which could
alone perpetuate the fame of their exploits; the Provincials, relapsing into barbarism, neglected
to describe the ruin of their country; and the doubtful tradition was almost extinguished,
before the missionaries of Rome restored the light of science and Christianity. The declamations
of Gildas, the fragments, or fables, of Nennius, the obscure hints of the Saxon laws and chronicles,
and the ecclesiastical tales of the venerable Bede, have been illustrated by the diligence,
and sometimes embellished by the fancy, of succeeding writers, whose works I am not ambitious
either to censure or to transcribe. Yet the historian of the empire may be tempted to pursue
the revolutions of a Roman province, till it vanishes from his sight; and an Englishman may
curiously trace the establishment of the Barbarians, from whom he derives his name, his laws,
and perhaps his origin.

About forty years after the dissolution of the Roman government, Vortigern appears to have
obtained the supreme, though precarious command of the princes and cities of Britain. That
unfortunate monarch has been almost unanimously condemned for the weak and mischievous policy
of inviting a formidable stranger, to repel the vexatious inroads of a domestic foe. His ambassadors
are despatched, by the gravest historians, to the coast of Germany: they address a pathetic
oration to the general assembly of the Saxons, and those warlike Barbarians resolve to assist
with a fleet and army the suppliants of a distant and unknown island. If Britain had indeed
been unknown to the Saxons, the measure of its calamities would have been less complete. But
the strength of the Roman government could not always guard the maritime province against the
pirates of Germany; the independent and divided states were exposed to their attacks; and the
Saxons might sometimes join the Scots and the Picts, in a tacit, or express, confederacy of
rapine and destruction. Vortigern could only balance the various perils, which assaulted on
every side his throne and his people; and his policy may deserve either praise or excuse, if
he preferred the alliance of those Barbarians, whose naval power rendered them the most dangerous
enemies and the most serviceable allies. Hengist and Horsa, as they ranged along the Eastern
coast with three ships, were engaged, by the promise of an ample stipend, to embrace the defence
of Britain; and their intrepid valor soon delivered the country from the Caledonian invaders.
The Isle of Thanet, a secure and fertile district, was allotted for the residence of these
German auxiliaries, and they were supplied, according to the treaty, with a plentiful allowance
of clothing and provisions. This favorable reception encouraged five thousand warriors to embark
with their families in seventeen vessels, and the infant power of Hengist was fortified by
this strong and seasonable reenforcement. The crafty Barbarian suggested to Vortigern the obvious
advantage of fixing, in the neighborhood of the Picts, a colony of faithful allies: a third
fleet of forty ships, under the command of his son and nephew, sailed from Germany, ravaged
the Orkneys, and disembarked a new army on the coast of Northumberland, or Lothian, at the
opposite extremity of the devoted land. It was easy to foresee, but it was impossible to prevent,
the impending evils. The two nations were soon divided and exasperated by mutual jealousies.
The Saxons magnified all that they had done and suffered in the cause of an ungrateful people;
while the Britons regretted the liberal rewards which could not satisfy the avarice of those
haughty mercenaries. The causes of fear and hatred were inflamed into an irreconcilable quarrel.
The Saxons flew to arms; and if they perpetrated a treacherous massacre during the security
of a feast, they destroyed the reciprocal confidence which sustains the intercourse of peace
and war.

Hengist, who boldly aspired to the conquest of Britain, exhorted his countrymen to embrace
the glorious opportunity: he painted in lively colors the fertility of the soil, the wealth
of the cities, the pusillanimous temper of the natives, and the convenient situation of a spacious
solitary island, accessible on all sides to the Saxon fleets. The successive colonies which
issued, in the period of a century, from the mouths of the Elbe, the Weser, and the Rhine,
were principally composed of three valiant tribes or nations of Germany; the Jutes, the old
Saxons, and the Angles. The Jutes, who fought under the peculiar banner of Hengist, assumed
the merit of leading their countrymen in the paths of glory, and of erecting, in Kent, the
first independent kingdom. The fame of the enterprise was attributed to the primitive Saxons;
and the common laws and language of the conquerors are described by the national appellation
of a people, which, at the end of four hundred years, produced the first monarchs of South
Britain. The Angles were distinguished by their numbers and their success; and they claimed
the honor of fixing a perpetual name on the country, of which they occupied the most ample
portion. The Barbarians, who followed the hopes of rapine either on the land or sea, were insensibly
blended with this triple confederacy; the Frisians, who had been tempted by their vicinity
to the British shores, might balance, during a short space, the strength and reputation of
the native Saxons; the Danes, the Prussians, the Rugians, are faintly described; and some adventurous
Huns, who had wandered as far as the Baltic, might embark on board the German vessels, for
the conquest of a new world. But this arduous achievement was not prepared or executed by the
union of national powers. Each intrepid chieftain, according to the measure of his fame and
fortunes, assembled his followers; equipped a fleet of three, or perhaps of sixty, vessels;
chose the place of the attack; and conducted his subsequent operations according to the events
of the war, and the dictates of his private interest. In the invasion of Britain many heroes
vanquished and fell; but only seven victorious leaders assumed, or at least maintained, the
title of kings. Seven independent thrones, the Saxon Heptarchy, were founded by the conquerors,
and seven families, one of which has been continued, by female succession, to our present sovereign,
derived their equal and sacred lineage from Woden, the god of war. It has been pretended, that
this republic of kings was moderated by a general council and a supreme magistrate. But such
an artificial scheme of policy is repugnant to the rude and turbulent spirit of the Saxons:
their laws are silent; and their imperfect annals afford only a dark and bloody prospect of
intestine discord.

A monk, who, in the profound ignorance of human life, has presumed to exercise the office of
historian, strangely disfigures the state of Britain at the time of its separation from the
Western empire. Gildas describes in florid language the improvements of agriculture, the foreign
trade which flowed with every tide into the Thames and the Severn the solid and lofty construction
of public and private edifices; he accuses the sinful luxury of the British people; of a people,
according to the same writer, ignorant of the most simple arts, and incapable, without the
aid of the Romans, of providing walls of stone, or weapons of iron, for the defence of their
native land. Under the long dominion of the emperors, Britain had been insensibly moulded into
the elegant and servile form of a Roman province, whose safety was intrusted to a foreign power.
The subjects of Honorius contemplated their new freedom with surprise and terror; they were
left destitute of any civil or military constitution; and their uncertain rulers wanted either
skill, or courage, or authority, to direct the public force against the common enemy. The introduction
of the Saxons betrayed their internal weakness, and degraded the character both of the prince
and people. Their consternation magnified the danger; the want of union diminished their resources;
and the madness of civil factions was more solicitous to accuse, than to remedy, the evils,
which they imputed to the misconduct of their adversaries. Yet the Britons were not ignorant,
they could not be ignorant, of the manufacture or the use of arms; the successive and disorderly
attacks of the Saxons allowed them to recover from their amazement, and the prosperous or adverse
events of the war added discipline and experience to their native valor.

While the continent of Europe and Africa yielded, without resistance, to the Barbarians, the
British island, alone and unaided, maintained a long, a vigorous, though an unsuccessful, struggle,
against the formidable pirates, who, almost at the same instant, assaulted the Northern, the
Eastern, and the Southern coasts. The cities which had been fortified with skill, were defended
with resolution; the advantages of ground, hills, forests, and morasses, were diligently improved
by the inhabitants; the conquest of each district was purchased with blood; and the defeats
of the Saxons are strongly attested by the discreet silence of their annalist. Hengist might
hope to achieve the conquest of Britain; but his ambition, in an active reign of thirty-five
years, was confined to the possession of Kent; and the numerous colony which he had planted
in the North, was extirpated by the sword of the Britons. The monarchy of the West Saxons was
laboriously founded by the persevering efforts of three martial generations. The life of Cerdic,
one of the bravest of the children of Woden, was consumed in the conquest of Hampshire, and
the Isle of Wight; and the loss which he sustained in the battle of Mount Badon, reduced him
to a state of inglorious repose. Kenric, his valiant son, advanced into Wiltshire; besieged
Salisbury, at that time seated on a commanding eminence; and vanquished an army which advanced
to the relief of the city. In the subsequent battle of Marlborough, his British enemies displayed
their military science. Their troops were formed in three lines; each line consisted of three
distinct bodies, and the cavalry, the archers, and the pikemen, were distributed according
to the principles of Roman tactics. The Saxons charged in one weighty column, boldly encountered
with their short swords the long lances of the Britons, and maintained an equal conflict till
the approach of night. Two decisive victories, the death of three British kings, and the reduction
of Cirencester, Bath, and Gloucester, established the fame and power of Ceaulin, the grandson
of Cerdic, who carried his victorious arms to the banks of the Severn.

After a war of a hundred years, the independent Britons still occupied the whole extent of
the Western coast, from the wall of Antoninus to the extreme promontory of Cornwall; and the
principal cities of the inland country still opposed the arms of the Barbarians. Resistance
became more languid, as the number and boldness of the assailants continually increased. Winning
their way by slow and painful efforts, the Saxons, the Angles, and their various confederates,
advanced from the North, from the East, and from the South, till their victorious banners were
united in the centre of the island. Beyond the Severn the Britons still asserted their national
freedom, which survived the heptarchy, and even the monarchy, of the Saxons. The bravest warriors,
who preferred exile to slavery, found a secure refuge in the mountains of Wales: the reluctant
submission of Cornwall was delayed for some ages; and a band of fugitives acquired a settlement
in Gaul, by their own valor, or the liberality of the Merovingian kings. The Western angle
of Armorica acquired the new appellations of Cornwall, and the Lesser Britain; and the vacant
lands of the Osismii were filled by a strange people, who, under the authority of their counts
and bishops, preserved the laws and language of their ancestors. To the feeble descendants
of Clovis and Charlemagne, the Britons of Armorica refused the customary tribute, subdued the
neighboring dioceses of Vannes, Rennes, and Nantes, and formed a powerful, though vassal, state,
which has been united to the crown of France.

Chapter XXXVIII: Reign Of Clovis.--Part V.

In a century of perpetual, or at least implacable, war, much courage, and some skill, must
have been exerted for the defence of Britain. Yet if the memory of its champions is almost
buried in oblivion, we need not repine; since every age, however destitute of science or virtue,
sufficiently abounds with acts of blood and military renown. The tomb of Vortimer, the son
of Vortigern, was erected on the margin of the sea-shore, as a landmark formidable to the Saxons,
whom he had thrice vanquished in the fields of Kent. Ambrosius Aurelian was descended from
a noble family of Romans; his modesty was equal to his valor, and his valor, till the last
fatal action, was crowned with splendid success. But every British name is effaced by the illustrious
name of Arthur, the hereditary prince of the Silures, in South Wales, and the elective king
or general of the nation. According to the most rational account, he defeated, in twelve successive
battles, the Angles of the North, and the Saxons of the West; but the declining age of the
hero was imbittered by popular ingratitude and domestic misfortunes. The events of his life
are less interesting than the singular revolutions of his fame. During a period of five hundred
years the tradition of his exploits was preserved, and rudely embellished, by the obscure bards
of Wales and Armorica, who were odious to the Saxons, and unknown to the rest of mankind. The
pride and curiosity of the Norman conquerors prompted them to inquire into the ancient history
of Britain: they listened with fond credulity to the tale of Arthur, and eagerly applauded
the merit of a prince who had triumphed over the Saxons, their common enemies. His romance,
transcribed in the Latin of Jeffrey of Monmouth, and afterwards translated into the fashionable
idiom of the times, was enriched with the various, though incoherent, ornaments which were
familiar to the experience, the learning, or the fancy, of the twelfth century. The progress
of a Phrygian colony, from the Tyber to the Thames, was easily ingrafted on the fable of the
Æneid; and the royal ancestors of Arthur derived their origin from Troy, and claimed their
alliance with the Cæsars. His trophies were decorated with captive provinces and Imperial titles;
and his Danish victories avenged the recent injuries of his country. The gallantry and superstition
of the British hero, his feasts and tournaments, and the memorable institution of his Knights
of the Round Table, were faithfully copied from the reigning manners of chivalry; and the fabulous
exploits of Uther's son appear less incredible than the adventures which were achieved by the
enterprising valor of the Normans. Pilgrimage, and the holy wars, introduced into Europe the
specious miracles of Arabian magic. Fairies and giants, flying dragons, and enchanted palaces,
were blended with the more simple fictions of the West; and the fate of Britain depended on
the art, or the predictions, of Merlin. Every nation embraced and adorned the popular romance
of Arthur, and the Knights of the Round Table: their names were celebrated in Greece and Italy;
and the voluminous tales of Sir Lancelot and Sir Tristram were devoutly studied by the princes
and nobles, who disregarded the genuine heroes and historians of antiquity. At length the light
of science and reason was rekindled; the talisman was broken; the visionary fabric melted into
air; and by a natural, though unjust, reverse of the public opinion, the severity of the present
age is inclined to question the existence of Arthur.

Resistance, if it cannot avert, must increase the miseries of conquest; and conquest has never
appeared more dreadful and destructive than in the hands of the Saxons; who hated the valor
of their enemies, disdained the faith of treaties, and violated, without remorse, the most
sacred objects of the Christian worship. The fields of battle might be traced, almost in every
district, by monuments of bones; the fragments of falling towers were stained with blood; the
last of the Britons, without distinction of age or sex, was massacred, in the ruins of Anderida;
and the repetition of such calamities was frequent and familiar under the Saxon heptarchy.
The arts and religion, the laws and language, which the Romans had so carefully planted in
Britain, were extirpated by their barbarous successors. After the destruction of the principal
churches, the bishops, who had declined the crown of martyrdom, retired with the holy relics
into Wales and Armorica; the remains of their flocks were left destitute of any spiritual food;
the practice, and even the remembrance, of Christianity were abolished; and the British clergy
might obtain some comfort from the damnation of the idolatrous strangers. The kings of France
maintained the privileges of their Roman subjects; but the ferocious Saxons trampled on the
laws of Rome, and of the emperors. The proceedings of civil and criminal jurisdiction, the
titles of honor, the forms of office, the ranks of society, and even the domestic rights of
marriage, testament, and inheritance, were finally suppressed; and the indiscriminate crowd
of noble and plebeian slaves was governed by the traditionary customs, which had been coarsely
framed for the shepherds and pirates of Germany. The language of science, of business, and
of conversation, which had been introduced by the Romans, was lost in the general desolation.
A sufficient number of Latin or Celtic words might be assumed by the Germans, to express their
new wants and ideas; but those illiterate Pagans preserved and established the use of their
national dialect. Almost every name, conspicuous either in the church or state, reveals its
Teutonic origin; and the geography of England was universally inscribed with foreign characters
and appellations. The example of a revolution, so rapid and so complete, may not easily be
found; but it will excite a probable suspicion, that the arts of Rome were less deeply rooted
in Britain than in Gaul or Spain; and that the native rudeness of the country and its inhabitants
was covered by a thin varnish of Italian manners.

This strange alteration has persuaded historians, and even philosophers, that the provincials
of Britain were totally exterminated; and that the vacant land was again peopled by the perpetual
influx, and rapid increase, of the German colonies. Three hundred thousand Saxons are said
to have obeyed the summons of Hengist; the entire emigration of the Angles was attested, in
the age of Bede, by the solitude of their native country; and our experience has shown the
free propagation of the human race, if they are cast on a fruitful wilderness, where their
steps are unconfined, and their subsistence is plentiful. The Saxon kingdoms displayed the
face of recent discovery and cultivation; the towns were small, the villages were distant;
the husbandry was languid and unskilful; four sheep were equivalent to an acre of the best
land; an ample space of wood and morass was resigned to the vague dominion of nature; and the
modern bishopric of Durham, the whole territory from the Tyne to the Tees, had returned to
its primitive state of a savage and solitary forest. Such imperfect population might have been
supplied, in some generations, by the English colonies; but neither reason nor facts can justify
the unnatural supposition, that the Saxons of Britain remained alone in the desert which they
had subdued. After the sanguinary Barbarians had secured their dominion, and gratified their
revenge, it was their interest to preserve the peasants as well as the cattle, of the unresisting
country. In each successive revolution, the patient herd becomes the property of its new masters;
and the salutary compact of food and labor is silently ratified by their mutual necessities.
Wilfrid, the apostle of Sussex, accepted from his royal convert the gift of the peninsula of
Selsey, near Chichester, with the persons and property of its inhabitants, who then amounted
to eighty-seven families. He released them at once from spiritual and temporal bondage; and
two hundred and fifty slaves of both sexes were baptized by their indulgent master. The kingdom
of Sussex, which spread from the sea to the Thames, contained seven thousand families; twelve
hundred were ascribed to the Isle of Wight; and, if we multiply this vague computation, it
may seem probable, that England was cultivated by a million of servants, or villains, who were
attached to the estates of their arbitrary landlords. The indigent Barbarians were often tempted
to sell their children, or themselves into perpetual, and even foreign, bondage; yet the special
exemptions which were granted to national slaves, sufficiently declare that they were much
less numerous than the strangers and captives, who had lost their liberty, or changed their
masters, by the accidents of war. When time and religion had mitigated the fierce spirit of
the Anglo-Saxons, the laws encouraged the frequent practice of manumission; and their subjects,
of Welsh or Cambrian extraction, assumed the respectable station of inferior freemen, possessed
of lands, and entitled to the rights of civil society. Such gentle treatment might secure the
allegiance of a fierce people, who had been recently subdued on the confines of Wales and Cornwall.
The sage Ina, the legislator of Wessex, united the two nations in the bands of domestic alliance;
and four British lords of Somersetshire may be honorably distinguished in the court of a Saxon
monarch.

The independent Britons appear to have relapsed into the state of original barbarism, from
whence they had been imperfectly reclaimed. Separated by their enemies from the rest of mankind,
they soon became an object of scandal and abhorrence to the Catholic world. Christianity was
still professed in the mountains of Wales; but the rude schismatics, in the form of the clerical
tonsure, and in the day of the celebration of Easter, obstinately resisted the imperious mandates
of the Roman pontiffs. The use of the Latin language was insensibly abolished, and the Britons
were deprived of the art and learning which Italy communicated to her Saxon proselytes. In
Wales and Armorica, the Celtic tongue, the native idiom of the West, was preserved and propagated;
and the Bards, who had been the companions of the Druids, were still protected, in the sixteenth
century, by the laws of Elizabeth. Their chief, a respectable officer of the courts of Pengwern,
or Aberfraw, or Caermarthen, accompanied the king's servants to war: the monarchy of the Britons,
which he sung in the front of battle, excited their courage, and justified their depredations;
and the songster claimed for his legitimate prize the fairest heifer of the spoil. His subordinate
ministers, the masters and disciples of vocal and instrumental music, visited, in their respective
circuits, the royal, the noble, and the plebeian houses; and the public poverty, almost exhausted
by the clergy, was oppressed by the importunate demands of the bards. Their rank and merit
were ascertained by solemn trials, and the strong belief of supernatural inspiration exalted
the fancy of the poet, and of his audience. The last retreats of Celtic freedom, the extreme
territories of Gaul and Britain, were less adapted to agriculture than to pasturage: the wealth
of the Britons consisted in their flocks and herds; milk and flesh were their ordinary food;
and bread was sometimes esteemed, or rejected, as a foreign luxury. Chapter.

"You lucky people even know it, not like one of us has much to envy you, XII," said the colonel.
"As you sit in your daily comfort, and if you do not now and then really fly on the wall to
get angry about for had it you would actually be good. Now a peep, how cute is that thing
on the sugar bowl and wipe the nose wings brush your! If you think it is now possible that the
good-natured to you in this country comes from outside himself with rage when the noon of him
sleeping on the forehead while walking? Such a Bivouac on the Rio Grande without a mosquito net
that would be something for you to teach you patience in temptations. "The pharmacist smiled
and said," Our challenges we have probably no, dear August.

"Dear Agostin! may I ask you, "cried the guest.

"You have no idea how I hate this past August.

If someone's old Adam as complete as I ditch the bears, he holds something new on his coat.
My current suits me like a glove, I see you again - Dom Agostin Agonista, gendarmerie colonel
in the Imperial Brazilian services - all in order, such as patent passport - "you did not get excited,
dear," said old Philip soothingly. "I do not get excited myself, I am annoyed only," cried the colonel.
"And like a true German on the fly on the wall, best Augustine,"
said the pharmacist "wild man" to, and then they went to something
else on, that is, the Colonel began to be very precise circumstances,
and biographies of the gentlemen, whose acquaintance he had yesterday
to inquire about the evening made for.

Then he told his precise way in which he Hanff doctor on the way
was the zusammengeraten with, and thus he came to like him, not only
in this region have resulted chance yet, but as it came with the intention
That was in the to the old botanical forest and young comrades, to
the faithful friends of the chair, look for blood.

"I had no idea where you've been, and whether you are still alive,
O Filippo," said the Brazilian.

"But I was determined to find dead or alive to you, and I have succeeded. A Maron hunting it was not at,
dude. I've probably learned, traces of man in the primeval forest and wildlife, such as arable fields
and on roads in the most confused and under the earth for the purpose to monitor the between.
You, or your name, or rather, a brandy or liqueur of your name I felt the newspapers in - the>
Kristeller worse after I went, and as I am for, and you will certainly not blame me if I over the drink
at the source to try in the morning wish. It was not necessary that your doctor on my> Kristeller
<carefully made. The old Philip had this debate constantly Meanwhile, you hand rubbed, now sprang
up, he, my friend tapped the shoulder and said, "Well, my"

Kristeller <made you put on my track! Oh, dear August - in, I think there really made to have a beneficial
invention, I shall at once - "" after, "said the colonel Agonista.
 The forsaken princess of the Angles, instead of bewailing,
revenged her disgrace. Her warlike subjects are said to have been ignorant of the use, and
even of the form, of a horse; but she boldly sailed from Britain to the mouth of the Rhine,
with a fleet of four hundred ships, and an army of one hundred thousand men. After the loss
of a battle, the captive Radiger implored the mercy of his victorious bride, who generously
pardoned his offence, dismissed her rival, and compelled the king of the Varni to discharge
with honor and fidelity the duties of a husband. This gallant exploit appears to be the last
naval enterprise of the Anglo-Saxons. The arts of navigation, by which they acquired the empire
of Britain and of the sea, were soon neglected by the indolent Barbarians, who supinely renounced
all the commercial advantages of their insular situation. Seven independent kingdoms were agitated
by perpetual discord; and the British world was seldom connected, either in peace or war, with
the nations of the Continent.

I have now accomplished the laborious narrative of the decline and fall of the Roman empire,
from the fortunate age of Trajan and the Antonines, to its total extinction in the West, about
five centuries after the Christian era. At that unhappy period, the Saxons fiercely struggled
with the natives for the possession of Britain: Gaul and Spain were divided between the powerful
monarchies of the Franks and Visigoths, and the dependent kingdoms of the Suevi and Burgundians:
Africa was exposed to the cruel persecution of the Vandals, and the savage insults of the Moors:
Rome and Italy, as far as the banks of the Danube, were afflicted by an army of Barbarian mercenaries,
whose lawless tyranny was succeeded by the reign of Theodoric the Ostrogoth. All the subjects
of the empire, who, by the use of the Latin language, more particularly deserved the name and
privileges of Romans, were oppressed by the disgrace and calamities of foreign conquest; and
the victorious nations of Germany established a new system of manners and government in the
western countries of Europe. The majesty of Rome was faintly represented by the princes of
Constantinople, the feeble and imaginary successors of Augustus. Yet they continued to reign
over the East, from the Danube to the Nile and Tigris; the Gothic and Vandal kingdoms of Italy
and Africa were subverted by the arms of Justinian; and the history of the Greek emperors may
still afford a long series of instructive lessons, and interesting revolutions.

Chapter XXXVIII: Reign Of Clovis.--Part VI.

General Observations On The Fall Of The Roman Empire In The West.

The Greeks, after their country had been reduced into a province, imputed the triumphs of Rome,
not to the merit, but to the fortune, of the republic. The inconstant goddess, who so blindly
distributes and resumes her favors, had now consented (such was the language of envious flattery)
to resign her wings, to descend from her globe, and to fix her firm and immutable throne on
the banks of the Tyber. A wiser Greek, who has composed, with a philosophic spirit, the memorable
history of his own times, deprived his countrymen of this vain and delusive comfort, by opening
to their view the deep foundations of the greatness of Rome. The fidelity of the citizens to
each other, and to the state, was confirmed by the habits of education, and the prejudices
of religion. Honor, as well as virtue, was the principle of the republic; the ambitious citizens
labored to deserve the solemn glories of a triumph; and the ardor of the Roman youth was kindled
into active emulation, as often as they beheld the domestic images of their ancestors. The
temperate struggles of the patricians and plebeians had finally established the firm and equal
balance of the constitution; which united the freedom of popular assemblies, with the authority
and wisdom of a senate, and the executive powers of a regal magistrate. When the consul displayed
the standard of the republic, each citizen bound himself, by the obligation of an oath, to
draw his sword in the cause of his country, till he had discharged the sacred duty by a military
service of ten years. This wise institution continually poured into the field the rising generations
of freemen and soldiers; and their numbers were reënforced by the warlike and populous states
of Italy, who, after a brave resistance, had yielded to the valor and embraced the alliance,
of the Romans. The sage historian, who excited the virtue of the younger Scipio, and beheld
the ruin of Carthage, has accurately described their military system; their levies, arms, exercises,
subordination, marches, encampments; and the invincible legion, superior in active strength
to the Macedonian phalanx of Philip and Alexander. From these institutions of peace and war
Polybius has deduced the spirit and success of a people, incapable of fear, and impatient of
repose. The ambitious design of conquest, which might have been defeated by the seasonable
conspiracy of mankind, was attempted and achieved; and the perpetual violation of justice was
maintained by the political virtues of prudence and courage. The arms of the republic, sometimes
vanquished in battle, always victorious in war, advanced with rapid steps to the Euphrates,
the Danube, the Rhine, and the Ocean; and the images of gold, or silver, or brass, that might
serve to represent the nations and their kings, were successively broken by the iron monarchy
of Rome.

The rise of a city, which swelled into an empire, may deserve, as a singular prodigy, the reflection
of a philosophic mind. But the decline of Rome was the natural and inevitable effect of immoderate
greatness. Prosperity ripened the principle of decay; the causes of destruction multiplied
with the extent of conquest; and as soon as time or accident had removed the artificial supports,
the stupendous fabric yielded to the pressure of its own weight. The story of its ruin is simple
and obvious; and instead of inquiring why the Roman empire was destroyed, we should rather
be surprised that it had subsisted so long. The victorious legions, who, in distant wars, acquired
the vices of strangers and mercenaries, first oppressed the freedom of the republic, and afterwards
violated the majesty of the purple. The emperors, anxious for their personal safety and the
public peace, were reduced to the base expedient of corrupting the discipline which rendered
them alike formidable to their sovereign and to the enemy; the vigor of the military government
was relaxed, and finally dissolved, by the partial institutions of Constantine; and the Roman
world was overwhelmed by a deluge of Barbarians.

The decay of Rome has been frequently ascribed to the translation of the seat of empire; but
this History has already shown, that the powers of government were divided, rather than removed.
The throne of Constantinople was erected in the East; while the West was still possessed by
a series of emperors who held their residence in Italy, and claimed their equal inheritance
of the legions and provinces. Those in front were holding him and asked, urging him to where he hurriedly
sent way are difficult and you could find in his assertion that he hastened Lot three need to get
snuff.

But in the hall was after the removal of the previous gods, decent silence occurred. Magnificus I
took a look full sovereignty, and began: "It is a maximum tariffs
Central Commission of Inquiry Order approached by, on certain secret
machinations and connections to our for some time now arisen have
to university so that our attention to addressed.

We are now after careful examination of the circumstances completely agree about it, that, Barbe,
are highly suspect, have made under our academic relations of such youth to marvel spun and
brought to you by Mr. Well, what do you say, M. de Barbe "" What I say to that? As yet, nothing.
I expect the proper evidence, the life and conduct of such an accusation to make my suspicious. ""
The evidence? " answer surprised the rector. They demand proof? Is the respect for an academic
senate? You engage in their own proof that it is not culpable suspicion
of demagogy.

""

With kind permission, Your Magnificence, "replied the Dean of the lawyers," Inquisit can, " if a suspicion
is accused inalle, egeverlangen W said that his reasons of suspicion
be named.

"The medical Rector Cold sweat was calculated on the forehead, you looked at him that he Muehe
the Beweisgruende in his head down with and herwaelzte. Like a messenger from heaven appeared to
him, therefore, the caretaker of the can and also reported in a frightened
voice that students in large numbers before the Universitaetsgebaeude
have ganged up, and a suspicious murmur ran through the ranks, the
one or Pereat Scheibeneinwerfen seem to threaten .

No sooner had he uttered, crashed a maid come in and raised by the Honourable the Lord Magnifikussin
Magnificus a compliment to, "and he would like but home exculpate himself because the students
did all sorts of suspicious movements".

"is not the clearest evidence against their secret machinations, Mr. Barbe of? " said the Magnificence
in plaintive tone. "But the rebellion is rising, videant consules, ne quid detrimenti - you take
his measures, - that the devil in all fatal Haendel Executive City must bring my straight!
- Domine Colleague, Dr. Pepper, what do you agree?" It's actually not a vote to the vote and
argued for maturity progressed, I suggest, however, bar until further notice to dismiss Mr and
him - ""

Right, well, "said the rector," you can assign, valued young friend; calm your comrades, you can
imagine just how lightly we are with you proceed, and to a more convenient hours, we will
again beg the honor of us, so no such thing but the sensation more
- God knows, the rebellion is rising, I hear pereat - so you come
tomorrow night, all to tea with me, you also prefer cash because things
can be further discussed then.

"I could hardly contain, men laughing in the face anxiously. They sat there, abandoned by God,
and wishing that in Abraham's bosom, that is, in the calm harbor of its wide armchair. "What is not heated
by a youth to be expected?" she complained. "Since teachers etzliche catheters
are increased by the Cyclops and under himmelstuermenden mixed, these are,
more is no respect, no respect there.

They fear you have as bad an actor at the bright days of being insulted or jeered." "From the
stabbing I want to do not talk, "said another," it should really
any literatus that not all the way good conscience one, chest harness
under the camisole wear one.

"However, the Philistines, therefore complained, I thanked my fellow students for their attention
for me, they said that at night they have much better opportunity to Fenstereinwerfen, and they
persuaded by prayers and ideas that they left. They marched in close order by the terrified town
and sang their "Ca ira, ca ira," namely: "boys free live die" and the sublime "Rautsch, rautsch, rautschitschi,
Revolution!" I went back the hall back in and told the even the gentlemen
that they fear have nothing to do, because I've been able Studios
Gentlemen who, to go home.

Shame
and anger now reddened the pale faces, and my little psychology I should have entirely mistaken,
if I let the men do not pay for their fear. And, certainly! My idea had not deceived me.
 The Barbarian world was agitated by the rapid impulse of
war; and the peace of Gaul or Italy was shaken by the distant revolutions of China. The Huns,
who fled before a victorious enemy, directed their march towards the West; and the torrent
was swelled by the gradual accession of captives and allies. The flying tribes who yielded
to the Huns assumed in their turn the spirit of conquest; the endless column of Barbarians
pressed on the Roman empire with accumulated weight; and, if the foremost were destroyed, the
vacant space was instantly replenished by new assailants. Such formidable emigrations can no
longer issue from the North; and the long repose, which has been imputed to the decrease of
population, is the happy consequence of the progress of arts and agriculture. Instead of some
rude villages, thinly scattered among its woods and morasses, Germany now produces a list of
two thousand three hundred walled towns: the Christian kingdoms of Denmark, Sweden, and Poland,
have been successively established; and the Hanse merchants, with the Teutonic knights, have
extended their colonies along the coast of the Baltic, as far as the Gulf of Finland. From
the Gulf of Finland to the Eastern Ocean, Russia now assumes the form of a powerful and civilized
empire. The plough, the loom, and the forge, are introduced on the banks of the Volga, the
Oby, and the Lena; and the fiercest of the Tartar hordes have been taught to tremble and obey.
The reign of independent Barbarism is now contracted to a narrow span; and the remnant of Calmucks
or Uzbecks, whose forces may be almost numbered, cannot seriously excite the apprehensions
of the great republic of Europe. Yet this apparent security should not tempt us to forget,
that new enemies, and unknown dangers, may possibly arise from some obscure people, scarcely
visible in the map of the world, The Arabs or Saracens, who spread their conquests from India
to Spain, had languished in poverty and contempt, till Mahomet breathed into those savage bodies
the soul of enthusiasm.

II. The empire of Rome was firmly established by the singular and perfect coalition of its
members. The subject nations, resigning the hope, and even the wish, of independence, embraced
the character of Roman citizens; and the provinces of the West were reluctantly torn by the
Barbarians from the bosom of their mother country. But this union was purchased by the loss
of national freedom and military spirit; and the servile provinces, destitute of life and motion,
expected their safety from the mercenary troops and governors, who were directed by the orders
of a distant court. The happiness of a hundred millions depended on the personal merit of one
or two men, perhaps children, whose minds were corrupted by education, luxury, and despotic
power. The deepest wounds were inflicted on the empire during the minorities of the sons and
grandsons of Theodosius; and, after those incapable princes seemed to attain the age of manhood,
they abandoned the church to the bishops, the state to the eunuchs, and the provinces to the
Barbarians. Europe is now divided into twelve powerful, though unequal kingdoms, three respectable
commonwealths, and a variety of smaller, though independent, states: the chances of royal and
ministerial talents are multiplied, at least, with the number of its rulers; and a Julian,
or Semiramis, may reign in the North, while Arcadius and Honorius again slumber on the thrones
of the South. The abuses of tyranny are restrained by the mutual influence of fear and shame;
republics have acquired order and stability; monarchies have imbibed the principles of freedom,
or, at least, of moderation; and some sense of honor and justice is introduced into the most
defective constitutions by the general manners of the times. In peace, the progress of knowledge
and industry is accelerated by the emulation of so many active rivals: in war, the European
forces are exercised by temperate and undecisive contests. If a savage conqueror should issue
from the deserts of Tartary, he must repeatedly vanquish the robust peasants of Russia, the
numerous armies of Germany, the gallant nobles of France, and the intrepid freemen of Britain;
who, perhaps, might confederate for their common defence. Should the victorious Barbarians
carry slavery and desolation as far as the Atlantic Ocean, ten thousand vessels would transport
beyond their pursuit the remains of civilized society; and Europe would revive and flourish
in the American world, which is already filled with her colonies and institutions.

III. Cold, poverty, and a life of danger and fatigue, fortify the strength and courage of Barbarians.
In every age they have oppressed the polite and peaceful nations of China, India, and Persia,
who neglected, and still neglect, to counterbalance these natural powers by the resources of
military art. The warlike states of antiquity, Greece, Macedonia, and Rome, educated a race
of soldiers; exercised their bodies, disciplined their courage, multiplied their forces by
regular evolutions, and converted the iron, which they possessed, into strong and serviceable
weapons. But this superiority insensibly declined with their laws and manners; and the feeble
policy of Constantine and his successors armed and instructed, for the ruin of the empire,
the rude valor of the Barbarian mercenaries. The military art has been changed by the invention
of gunpowder; which enables man to command the two most powerful agents of nature, air and
fire. Mathematics, chemistry, mechanics, architecture, have been applied to the service of
war; and the adverse parties oppose to each other the most elaborate modes of attack and of
defence. Historians may indignantly observe, that the preparations of a siege would found and
maintain a flourishing colony; yet we cannot be displeased, that the subversion of a city should
be a work of cost and difficulty; or that an industrious people should be protected by those
arts, which survive and supply the decay of military virtue. Cannon and fortifications now
form an impregnable barrier against the Tartar horse; and Europe is secure from any future
irruption of Barbarians; since, before they can conquer, they must cease to be barbarous. Their
gradual advances in the science of war would always be accompanied, as we may learn from the
example of Russia, with a proportionable improvement in the arts of peace and civil policy;
and they themselves must deserve a place among the polished nations whom they subdue.

Should these speculations be found doubtful or fallacious, there still remains a more humble
source of comfort and hope. The discoveries of ancient and modern navigators, and the domestic
history, or tradition, of the most enlightened nations, represent the human savage, naked both
in body and mind and destitute of laws, of arts, of ideas, and almost of language. From this
abject condition, perhaps the primitive and universal state of man, he has gradually arisen
to command the animals, to fertilize the earth, to traverse the ocean and to measure the heavens.
His progress in the improvement and exercise of his mental and corporeal faculties has been
irregular and various; infinitely slow in the beginning, and increasing by degrees with redoubled
velocity: ages of laborious ascent have been followed by a moment of rapid downfall; and the
several climates of the globe have felt the vicissitudes of light and darkness. Yet the experience
of four thousand years should enlarge our hopes, and diminish our apprehensions: we cannot
determine to what height the human species may aspire in their advances towards perfection;
but it may safely be presumed, that no people, unless the face of nature is changed, will relapse
into their original barbarism. The improvements of society may be viewed under a threefold
aspect. 1. The poet or philosopher illustrates his age and country by the efforts of a single
mind; but those superior powers of reason or fancy are rare and spontaneous productions; and
the genius of Homer, or Cicero, or Newton, would excite less admiration, if they could be created
by the will of a prince, or the lessons of a preceptor. 2. The benefits of law and policy,
of trade and manufactures, of arts and sciences, are more solid and permanent: and many individuals
may be qualified, by education and discipline, to promote, in their respective stations, the
interest of the community. But this general order is the effect of skill and labor; and the
complex machinery may be decayed by time, or injured by violence. 3. Wirsich waved his hand with amusement.
It never occurred to him, he said, perhaps even unreasonable to drink so again, as before. He
had this now, he thought, a habit once and for, so deteriorated because he was not yet a long
time. How Tobler stand by?

"Not good," said the assistant, and he told in brief outline, the decline of the house. Wirsich should
beware, however, talk to, these were trade secrets and nobody went
to. Wirsich said

: Private genius and public
industry may be extirpated; but these hardy plants survive the tempest, and strike an everlasting
root into the most unfavorable soil. The splendid days of Augustus and Trajan were eclipsed
by a cloud of ignorance; and the Barbarians subverted the laws and palaces of Rome. (P. 39) This mechanism of emotion will increase by some others from
the crowd outgoing influences still favored.

The mass
makes the individual the feeling of unlimited power and an invincible threat.


Since the first discovery of the arts, war, commerce, and religious zeal have diffused, among
the savages of the Old and New World, these inestimable gifts: they have been successively
propagated; they can never be lost. We may therefore acquiesce in the pleasing conclusion,
that every age of the world has increased, and still increases, the real wealth, the happiness,
the knowledge, and perhaps the virtue, of the human race. End of Vol. 3

