Marie Antoinette on the way to the Guillotine

Madame Campan

PREFACE BY THE AUTHOR.

Louis XVI. possessed an immense crowd of confidants, advisers, and guides; he selected them
even from among the factions which attacked him. Never, perhaps, did he make a full disclosure
to any one of them, and certainly he spoke with sincerity, to but very few.  He invariably
kept the reins of all secret intrigues in his own hand; and thence, doubtless, arose the want
of cooperation and the weakness which were so conspicuous in his measures.  From these causes
considerable chasms will be found in the detailed history of the Revolution.

In order to become thoroughly acquainted with the latter years of the reign of Louis XV., memoirs
written by the Duc de Choiseul, the Duc d'Aiguillon, the Marechal de Richelieu,

[I heard Le Marechal de Richelieu desire M. Campan, who was librarian to the Queen, not to
buy the Memoirs which would certainly be attributed to him after his death, declaring them
false by anticipation; and adding that he was ignorant of orthography, and had never amused
himself with writing. Shortly after the death of the Marshal, one Soulavie put forth Memoirs
of the Marechal de Richelieu.]

and the Duc de La Vauguyon, should be before us.  To give us a faithful portrait of the unfortunate
reign of Louis XVI., the Marechal du Muy, M. de Maurepas, M. de Vergennes, M. de Malesherbes,
the Duc d'Orleans, M. de La Fayette, the Abby de Vermond, the Abbe Montesquiou, Mirabeau, the
Duchesse de Polignac, and the Duchesse de Luynes should have noted faithfully in writing all
the transactions in which they took decided parts.  The secret political history of a later
period has been disseminated among a much greater number of persons; there are Ministers who
have published memoirs, but only when they had their own measures to justify, and then they
confined themselves to the vindication of their own characters, without which powerful motive
they probably would have written nothing.  In general, those nearest to the Sovereign, either
by birth or by office, have left no memoirs; and in absolute monarchies the mainsprings of
great events will be found in particulars which the most exalted persons alone could know.
Those who have had but little under their charge find no subject in it for a book; and those
who have long borne the burden of public business conceive themselves to be forbidden by duty,
or by respect for authority, to disclose all they know.  Others, again, preserve notes, with
the intention of reducing them to order when they shall have reached the period of a happy
leisure; vain illusion of the ambitious, which they cherish, for the most part, but as a veil
to conceal from their sight the hateful image of their inevitable downfall! and when it does
at length take place, despair or chagrin deprives them of fortitude to dwell upon the dazzling
period which they never cease to regret.

Louis XVI.  meant to write his own memoirs; the manner in which his private papers were arranged
indicated this design.  The Queen also had the same intention; she long preserved a large correspondence,
and a great number of minute reports, made in the spirit and upon the event of the moment.
But after the 20th of June, 1792, she was obliged to burn the larger portion of what she had
so collected, and the remainder were conveyed out of France.

Considering the rank and situations of the persons I have named as capable of elucidating by
their writings the history of our political storms, it will not be imagined that I aim at placing
myself on a level with them; but I have spent half my life either with the daughters of Louis
XV. or with Marie Antoinette.  I knew the characters of those Princesses; I became privy to
some extraordinary facts, the publication of which may be interesting, and the truth of the
details will form the merit of my work.

I was very young when I was placed about the Princesses, the daughters of Louis XV., in the
capacity of reader.  I was acquainted with the Court of Versailles before the time of the marriage
of Louis XVI. with the Archduchess Marie Antoinette.

MADAME CAMPAN

My father, who was employed in the department of Foreign Affairs, enjoyed the reputation due
to his talents and to his useful labours.  He had travelled much.  Frenchmen, on their return
home from foreign countries, bring with them a love for their own, increased in warmth; and
no man was more penetrated with this feeling, which ought to be the first virtue of every placeman,
than my father.  Men of high title, academicians, and learned men, both natives and foreigners,
sought my father's acquaintance, and were gratified by being admitted into his house.

Twenty years before the Revolution I often heard it remarked that the imposing character of
the power of Louis XIV. was no longer to be found in the Palace of Versailles; that the institutions
of the ancient monarchy were rapidly sinking; and that the people, crushed beneath the weight
of taxes, were miserable, though silent; but that they began to give ear to the bold speeches
of the philosophers, who loudly proclaimed their sufferings and their rights; and, in short,
that the age would not pass away without the occurrence of some great outburst, which would
unsettle France, and change the course of its progress.

Those who thus spoke were almost all partisans of M. Turgot's system of administration: they
were Mirabeau the father, Doctor Quesnay, Abbe Bandeau, and Abbe Nicoli, charge d'affaires
to Leopold, Grand Duke of Tuscany, and as enthusiastic an admirer of the maxims of the innovators
as his Sovereign.

My father sincerely respected the purity of intention of these politicians.  With them he acknowledged
many abuses in the Government; but he did not give these political sectarians credit for the
talent necessary for conducting a judicious reform.  He told them frankly that in the art of
moving the great machine of Government, the wisest of them was inferior to a good magistrate;
and that if ever the helm of affairs should be put into their hands, they would be speedily
checked in the execution of their schemes by the immeasurable difference existing between the
most brilliant theories and the simplest practice of administration.

Destiny having formerly placed me near crowned heads, I now amuse my solitude when in retirement
with collecting a variety of facts which may prove interesting to my family when I shall be
no more.  The idea of collecting all the interesting materials which my memory affords occurred
to me from reading the work entitled "Paris, Versailles, and the Provinces in the Eighteenth
Century."  That work, composed by a man accustomed to the best society, is full of piquant
anecdotes, nearly all of which have been recognised as true by the contemporaries of the author.
I have put together all that concerned the domestic life of an unfortunate Princess, whose
reputation is not yet cleared of the stains it received from the attacks of calumny, and who
justly merited a different lot in life, a different place in the opinion of mankind after her
fall.  These memoirs, which were finished ten years ago, have met with the approbation of some
persons; and my son may, perhaps, think proper to print them after my decease.

J.  L.  H.  C.

--When Madame Campan wrote these lines, she did not anticipate that the death of her son would
precede her own.

HISTORIC COURT MEMOIRS.

MARIE ANTOINETTE.

MEMOIR OF MADAME CAMPAN.

JEANNE LOUISE HENRIETTE GENET was born in Paris on the 6th of October, 1752.  M. Genet, her
father, had obtained, through his own merit and the influence of the Duc de Choiseul, the place
of first clerk in the Foreign Office.

Literature, which he had cultivated in his youth, was often the solace of his leisure hours.
Surrounded by a numerous family, he made the instruction of his children his chief recreation,
and omitted nothing which was necessary to render them highly accomplished.  His clever and
precocious daughter Henriette was very early accustomed to enter society, and to take an intelligent
interest in current topics and public events. Accordingly, many of her relations being connected
with the Court or holding official positions, she amassed a fund of interesting recollections
and characteristic anecdotes, some gathered from personal experience, others handed down by
old friends of the family.

"The first event which made any impression on me in my childhood," she says in her reminiscences,
"was the attempt of Damiens to assassinate Louis XV.  This occurrence struck me so forcibly
that the most minute details relating to the confusion and grief which prevailed at Versailles
on that day seem as present to my imagination as the most recent events. The ink is still alive;
the Chinese or Japanese paper which Rembrandt generally used, has sometimes gone very yellow
and spotted, but oftener it has the fine mellowness of age. We treat it with respect, almost with
reverence, for we recall that these very sheets of paper were dampened and laid upon the etched
plate, already prepared by the hands of the great etcher himself. Each impression he pulled was as
carefully considered as the biting of the copper plate. He varied the strength of the ink, the
method of wiping, the pressure used; knowing the possibilities of his plate, he so manipulated
it that it responded to his touch as a piano responds to the touch of a musician. The poor impressions
and very late states, of which, unfortunately, many exist, are generally the work of those mercenary
ones into whose hands the plates fell after his death—sometimes even before. Like a man with
no music in his soul attempting to improve upon a sonata by Beethoven, these people not only
printed, haphazard, poor impressions having the master’s name, but
sometimes even undertook to rearrange the composition and often to
rework the plate.

[No. 1. Rembrandt’s Mother.]

No. 1. Rembrandt’s Mother.

A hundred years before Rembrandt’s time acid had been used to help out the graver. Durer, among
others, used it, and he employed also, but in hesitating manner, the dry-point with its accompanying
burr. Rembrandt’s method of utilizing the roughness thrown up on the copper by the dry-point
needle was a development of its possibilities that no one else, even among his own pupils, has
ever equaled. It was much the same with everything else: the burin of the professional engraver
he handled so skilfully that it is impossible to tell where the acid or the dry-point work stopped
and the reinforcing work of the graver began. When others tried to combine these methods they
failed. The hand of Rembrandt was the obedient servant of his mastermind: so well trained was
it that with a preliminary sketch or without it, the needle produced
on the smoked wax surface of the copper the picture which floated
before him, so correctly that the brain was not diverted from the
ideal picture by any crudity in the lines.

If the tools, methods, and effects which the great engravers had used suggested anything to him,
he freely took them up and bent them to his will. Making free use of all, binding himself
to none, he always remained the versatile, independent student. And the strangest thing about it all
is that he appears to have recognized, grappled with, and forever
solved the problems of the art while nothing but a youth.

  When he came into the King's apartment he found the
Dauphin and Mesdames, his Majesty's daughters, there; the Princesses, in tears, surrounded
the King's bed.  Send out all these weeping women, Sire,' said the old equerry; 'I want to
speak to you alone: The King made a sign to the Princesses to withdraw.  'Come,' said Landsmath,
'your wound is nothing; you had plenty of waistcoats and flannels on.'  Then uncovering his
breast, 'Look here,' said he, showing four or five great scars, 'these are something like wounds;
I received them thirty years ago; now cough as loud as you can.'  The King did so. ''Tis nothing
at all,' said Landsmath; 'you must laugh at it; we shall hunt a stag together in four days.'--'But
suppose the blade was poisoned,' said the King.  'Old grandams' tales,' replied Landsmath;
'if it had been so, the waistcoats and flannels would have rubbed the poison off.'  The King
was pacified, and passed a very good night.

"His Majesty one day asked M. de Landsmath how old he was.  He was aged, and by no means fond
of thinking of his age; he evaded the question. A fortnight later, Louis XV. took a paper out
of his pocket and read aloud: 'On such a day in the month of one thousand six hundred and eighty,
was baptised by me, rector of ------, the son of the high and mighty lord,' etc.  'What's that?'
said Landsmath, angrily; 'has your Majesty been procuring the certificate of my baptism?'--'There
it is, you see, Landsmath,' said the King.  'Well, Sire, hide it as fast as you can; a prince
entrusted with the happiness of twenty-five millions of people ought not wilfully to hurt the
feelings of a single individual.'

"The King learned that Landsmath had lost his confessor, a missionary priest of the parish
of Notre-Dame.  It was the custom of the Lazarists to expose their dead with the face uncovered.
Louis XV. wished to try his equerry's firmness.  'You have lost your confessor, I hear,' said
the King.  'Yes, Sire.'--'He will be exposed with his face bare?'--'Such is the custom.'--'I
command you to go and see him.'--'Sire, my confessor was my friend; it would be very painful
to me.'--'No matter; I command you.'--'Are you really in earnest, Sire?'--'Quite so.'--'It
would be the first time in my life that I had disobeyed my sovereign's order.  I will go.'
The next day the King at his levee, as soon as he perceived Landsmath, said, 'Have you done
as I desired you, Landsmath?'--'Undoubtedly, Sire.'--'Well, what did you see?'--'Faith, I saw
that your Majesty and I are no great shakes!'

"At the death of Queen Maria Leczinska, M. Campan,--[Her father-in-law, afterwards secretary
to Marie Antoinette.]--then an officer of the chamber, having performed several confidential
duties, the King asked Madame Adelaide how he should reward him.  She requested him to create
an office in his household of master of the wardrobe, with a salary of a thousand crowns. 
'I will do so,' said the King; 'it will be an honourable title; but tell Campan not to add
a single crown to his expenses, for you will see they will never pay him.'

"Louis XV., by his dignified carriage, and the amiable yet majestic expression of his features,
was worthy to succeed to Louis the Great. But he too frequently indulged in secret pleasures,
which at last were sure to become known.  During several winters, he was passionately fond
of 'candles' end balls', as he called those parties amongst the very lowest classes of society.
He got intelligence of the picnics given by the tradesmen, milliners, and sempstresses of Versailles,
whither he repaired in a black domino, and masked, accompanied by the captain of his Guards,
masked like himself.  His great delight was to go 'en brouette'--[In a kind of sedan-chair,
running on two wheels, and drawn by a chairman.]--Care was always taken to give notice to five
or six officers of the King's or Queen's chamber to be there, in order that his Majesty might
be surrounded by people on whom he could depend, without finding it troublesome.  Probably
the captain of the Guards also took other precautions of this description on his part.  My
father-in-law, when the King and he were both young, has often made one amongst the servants
desired to attend masked at these parties, assembled in some garret, or parlour of a public-house.
In those times, during the carnival, masked companies had a right to join the citizens' balls;
it was sufficient that one of the party should unmask and name himself.

"These secret excursions, and his too habitual intercourse with ladies more distinguished for
their personal charms than for the advantages of education, were no doubt the means by which
the King acquired many vulgar expressions which otherwise would never have reached his ears.

"Yet amidst the most shameful excesses the King sometimes suddenly resumed the dignity of his
rank in a very noble manner.  The familiar courtiers of Louis XV. had one day abandoned themselves
to the unrestrained gaiety, of a supper, after returning from the chase.  Each boasted of and
described the beauty of his mistress.  Some of them amused themselves with giving a particular
account of their wives' personal defects.  An imprudent word, addressed to Louis XV., and applicable
only to the Queen, instantly dispelled all the mirth of the entertainment. The King assumed
his regal air, and knocking with his knife on the table twice or thrice, 'Gentlemen; said he,
'here is the King!'

"Those men who are most completely abandoned to dissolute manners are not, on that account,
insensible to virtue in women.  The Comtesse de Perigord was as beautiful as virtuous.  During
some excursions she made to Choisy, whither she had been invited, she perceived that the King
took great notice of her.  Her demeanour of chilling respect, her cautious perseverance in
shunning all serious conversation with the monarch, were insufficient to extinguish this rising
flame, and he at length addressed a letter to her, worded in the most passionate terms.  This
excellent woman instantly formed her resolution: honour forbade her returning the King's passion,
whilst her profound respect for the sovereign made her unwilling to disturb his tranquillity.
She therefore voluntarily banished herself to an estate she possessed called Chalais, near
Barbezieux, the mansion of which had been uninhabited nearly a century; the porter's lodge
was the only place in a condition to receive her. From this seat she wrote to his Majesty,
explaining her motives for leaving Court; and she remained there several years without visiting
Paris.  Louis XV. was speedily attracted by other objects, and regained the composure to which
Madame de Perigord had thought it her duty to sacrifice so much.  Some years after, Mesdames'
lady of honour died. Many great families solicited the place.  The King, without answering
any of their applications, wrote to the Comtesse de Perigord: 'My daughters have just lost
their lady of honour; this place, madame, is your due, as much on account of your personal
qualities as of the illustrious name of your family.'

"Three young men of the college of St. Germain, who had just completed their course of studies,
knowing no person about the Court, and having heard that strangers were always well treated
there, resolved to dress themselves completely in the Armenian costume, and, thus clad, to
present themselves to see the grand ceremony of the reception of several knights of the Order
of the Holy Ghost.  Their stratagem met with all the success with which they had flattered
themselves.  While the procession was passing through the long mirror gallery, the Swiss of
the apartments placed them in the first row of spectators, recommending every one to pay all
possible attention to the strangers.  The latter, however, were imprudent enough to enter the
'oeil-de-boeuf' chamber, where, were Messieurs Cardonne and Ruffin, interpreters of Oriental
languages, and the first clerk of the consul's department, whose business it was to attend
to everything which related to the natives of the East who were in France. The three scholars
were immediately surrounded and questioned by these gentlemen, at first in modern Greek.  Without
being disconcerted, they made signs that they did not understand it.  They were then addressed
in Turkish and Arabic; at length one of the interpreters, losing all patience, exclaimed, 'Gentlemen,
you certainly must understand some of the languages in which you have been addressed.  What
country can you possibly come from then?'--'From St. Germain-en-Laye, sir,' replied the boldest
among them; 'this is the first time you have put the question to us in French.'  They then
confessed the motive of their disguise; the eldest of them was not more than eighteen years
of age.  Louis XV. was informed of the affair.  He laughed heartily, ordered them a few hours'
confinement and a good admonition, after which they were to be set at liberty.

"Louis XV. liked to talk about death, though he was extremely apprehensive of it; but his excellent
health and his royal dignity probably made him imagine himself invulnerable.  He often said
to people who had very bad colds, 'You've a churchyard cough there.'  Hunting one day in the
forest of Senard, in a year in which bread was extremely dear, he met a man on horseback carrying
a coffin.  'Whither are you carrying that coffin?'--'To the village of ------,' answered the
peasant.  'Is it for a man or a woman?'--'For a man.'--'What did he die of?'--'Of hunger,'
bluntly replied the villager.  The King spurred on his horse, and asked no more questions.

"Weak as Louis XV. was, the Parliaments would never have obtained his consent to the convocation
of the States General.  I heard an anecdote on this subject from two officers attached to that
Prince's household.  It was at the period when the remonstrances of the Parliaments, and the
refusals to register the decrees for levying taxes, produced alarm with respect to the state
of the finances.  This became the subject of conversation one evening at the coucher of Louis
XV.  'You will see, Sire,' said a courtier, whose office placed him in close communication
with the King, 'that all this will make it absolutely necessary to assemble the States General!'

"The King, roused by this speech from the habitual apathy of his character, seized the courtier
by the arm, and said to him, in a passion, 'Never repeat, these words.  I am not sanguinary;
but had I a brother, and were he to dare to give me such advice, I would sacrifice him, within
twenty-four hours, to the duration of the monarchy and the tranquillity of the kingdom.'

"Several years prior to his death the Dauphin, the father of Louis XVI., had confluent smallpox,
which endangered his life; and after his convalescence he was long troubled with a malignant
ulcer under the nose. He was injudiciously advised to get rid of it by the use of extract of
lead, which proved effectual; but from that time the Dauphin, who was corpulent, insensibly
grew thin, and a short, dry cough evinced that the humour, driven in, had fallen on the lungs. All
lovers of etching appreciate this and are grateful. Nevertheless, it is amusing sometimes to
compare their expert testimony. About 1633 somebody etched a “Good Samaritan.” Several of
these experts regretfully, but frankly, admit that Rembrandt is the guilty one. Others are
sure that a pupil did the worst of the work; Haden says it is entirely the work of another
hand; while yet another declares that of all Rembrandt’s etchings this particular “Good Samaritan”
(No. 101) is his favorite. Middleton, to give another instance, thinks that the thick lines
from top to bottom, in the fourth state of the “Christ Crucified between Two Thieves,” (“The Three
Crosses”) (No. 270) are not Rembrandt’s work, for they serve “to obliterate, conceal and mar every
excellence it had possessed.” Haden, however, considers that the time of darkness is represented,
and that this particular state is far the finest in effect. Much confusion arises from the fact
that sometimes all the states of a plate under discussion are not known to each critic. The
whole matter of states is a confusing one. The old idea was that Rembrandt produced various
states in order to make more money.

But it seems plain now that when Rembrandt changed a plate it was for much better reasons than the
making of a few guilders. We know, for instance, that the “Jan Six” plate was changed twice to make
needed corrections, and that the second state of the first portrait of his mother simply carries
out the original design. On the other hand, it obviously could not have been Rembrandt who made the third
state of the “Jan Lutma,” with its hard, ruled lines and great unnecessary window.

If in the days of hardship, when his son, Titus, peddled his etchings from door to door, he could
have foreseen the great army of admirers who three centuries later should outbid each other at auctions,
and make war in print over his experimental plates, his failures and his trial-proofs—now often
exalted into “states”—the very irony of the thing would surely have brought him genuine satisfaction
and relaxation.

Rembrandt has said of himself that he would submit to the laws of
Nature alone, and as he interpreted these to suit himself, he cannot
be said to have painted, or etched, or done anything in accord with
our interpretation of recognized or well-grounded laws.

With him it was instinct, pure and simple, from youth to old age. He had no secret process
of painting or etching; but he had an amazing genius for both.

One October day in 1669 an old man, lonely and forgotten, died in Amsterdam. They buried him
in the Wester Kerk and, that he might not be confounded with some
other old man, they wrote in the “Livre Mortuaire” of the Kerk, “Tuesday,
8th oct., 1669, rembrant van rijn, painter on the rozengraft, opposite
the doolhof. leaves two children.”

Of material things he left little;
but the two children: Cornelia, his fifteen year old daughter, and
Titia, the posthumous, infant child of Titus, would keep his name
alive!

Less than a score of years and the family record comes to an abrupt end. No one to-day may
claim descent from Rembrandt, but his name has not perished from
the earth, nor his influence abated among the sons of men.

His name took on new life when he laid it aside; his influence strengthened when he ceased personally
to exercise it. Who of us is not his grateful heir? Who does not now do loving reverence to
this poor “painter on the rozengraft, opposite the doolhof?” He surely stands among the immortals,
one of the foremost painters of all time, the greatest etcher that has yet appeared.

NOTE—The foregoing article was published a few years ago in The Craftsman. Of the many commendations
received at that time we print but one:

“New York, Dec’r. 5, 1906. Dear Mr. Holman; *** I send you my special thanks for your article
on the etchings of Rembrandt. I have read it carefully, and let me say plainly that I think is
the best short treatise on this great subject which ever I have read. The knowledge of the
subject as treated by many writers is so superficial—but yours is profound. You have evidently
made a serious study of your subject. Yours very truly,”

(Signed)
Frederick Keppel.  The Marquise, who still
held her enormous basket, was perfectly sensible of something offensive in this request, and
tried to excuse herself from singing.  The Queen at last commanded her; she then exerted her
fine voice in the solo of Armida--'At length he is in my power.' The change in her Majesty's
countenance was so obvious that the ladies present at this scene had the greatest difficulty
to keep theirs.

"The Queen was affable and modest; but the more she was thankful in her heart to Heaven for
having placed her on the first throne in Europe, the more unwilling she was to be reminded
of her elevation.  This sentiment induced her to insist on the observation of all the forms
of respect due to royal birth; whereas in other princes the consciousness of that birth often
induces them to disdain the ceremonies of etiquette, and to prefer habits of ease and simplicity.
There was a striking contrast in this respect between Maria Leczinska and Marie Antoinette,
as has been justly and generally observed.  The latter unfortunate Queen, perhaps, carried
her disregard of everything belonging to the strict forms of etiquette too far.  One day, when
the Marechale de Mouchy was teasing her with questions relative to the extent to which she
would allow the ladies the option of taking off or wearing their cloaks, and of pinning up
the lappets of their caps, or letting them hang down, the Queen replied to her, in my presence:
'Arrange all those matters, madame, just as you please; but do not imagine that a queen, born
Archduchess of Austria, can attach that importance to them which might be felt by a Polish
princess who had become Queen of France.'

"The virtues and information of the great are always evinced by their conduct; their accomplishments,
coming within the scope of flattery, are difficult to be ascertained by any authentic proofs,
and those who have lived near them may be excused for some degree of scepticism with regard
to their attainments of this kind.  If they draw or paint, there is always an able artist present,
who, if he does not absolutely guide the pencil with his own hand, directs it by his advice.
If a princess attempt a piece of embroidery in colours, of that description which ranks amongst
the productions of the arts, a skilful embroideress is employed to undo and repair whatever
has been spoilt.  If the princess be a musician, there are no ears that will discover when
she is out of tune; at least there is no tongue that will tell her so.  This imperfection in
the accomplishments of the great is but a slight misfortune.  It is sufficiently meritorious
in them to engage in such pursuits, even with indifferent success, because this taste and the
protection it extends produce abundance of talent on every side.  Maria Leczinska delighted
in the art of painting, and imagined she herself could draw and paint.  She had a drawing-master,
who passed all his time in her cabinet.  She undertook to paint four large Chinese pictures,
with which she wished to ornament her private drawing-room, which was richly furnished with
rare porcelain and the finest marbles.  This painter was entrusted with the landscape and background
of the pictures; he drew the figures with a pencil; the faces and arms were also left by the
Queen to his execution; she reserved to herself nothing but the draperies, and the least important
accessories. The Queen every morning filled up the outline marked out for her, with a little
red, blue, or green colour, which the master prepared on the palette, and even filled her brush
with, constantly repeating, 'Higher up, Madame--lower down, Madame--a little to the right--more
to the left.' After an hour's work, the time for hearing mass, or some other family or pious
duty, would interrupt her Majesty; and the painter, putting the shadows into the draperies
she had painted, softening off the colour where she had laid too much, etc., finished the small
figures.  When the work was completed the private drawing-room was decorated with her Majesty's
work; and the firm persuasion of this good Queen that she had painted it herself was so entire
that she left this cabinet, with all its furniture and paintings, to the Comtesse de Noailles,
her lady of honour.  She added to the bequest: 'The pictures in my cabinet being my own work,
I hope the Comtesse de Noailles will preserve them for my sake.'  Madame de Noailles, afterwards
Marechale de Mouchy, had a new pavilion constructed in her hotel in the Faubourg St. Germain,
in order to form a suitable receptacle for the Queen's legacy; and had the following inscription
placed over the door, in letters of gold: 'The innocent falsehood of a good princess.'

"Maria Leczinska could never look with cordiality on the Princess of Saxony, who married the
Dauphin; but the attentive behaviour of the Dauphiness at length made her Majesty forget that
the Princess was the daughter of a king who wore her father's crown.  Nevertheless, although
the Queen now saw in the Princess of Saxony only a wife beloved by her son, she never could
forget that Augustus wore the crown of Stanislaus. One day an officer of her chamber having
undertaken to ask a private audience of her for the Saxon minister, and the Queen being unwilling
to grant it, he ventured to add that he should not have presumed to ask this favour of the
Queen had not the minister been the ambassador of a member of the family.  'Say of an enemy
of the family,' replied the Queen, angrily; 'and let him come in.'

"Comte de Tesse, father of the last Count of that name, who left no children, was first equerry
to Queen Maria Leczinska.  She esteemed his virtues, but often diverted herself at the expense
of his simplicity. One day, when the conversation turned on the noble military, actions by
which the French nobility was distinguished, the Queen said to the Count: 'And your family,
M. de Tesse, has been famous, too, in the field.'--'Ah, Madame, we have all been killed in
our masters' service!'--'How rejoiced I am,' replied the Queen, 'that you have revived to tell
me of it.'  The son of this worthy M. de Tesse was married to the amiable and highly gifted
daughter of the Duc d'Ayen, afterwards Marechale de Noailles.  He was exceedingly fond of his
daughter-in-law, and never could speak of her without emotion.  The Queen, to please him, often
talked to him about the young Countess, and one day asked him which of her good qualities seemed
to him most conspicuous.  'Her gentleness, Madame, her gentleness,' said he, with tears in
his eyes; 'she is so mild, so soft,--as soft as a good carriage.'--'Well,' said her Majesty,
'that's an excellent comparison for a first equerry.'

"In 1730 Queen Maria Leczinska, going to mass, met old Marechal Villars, leaning on a wooden
crutch not worth fifteen pence.  She rallied him about it, and the Marshal told her that he
had used it ever since he had received a wound which obliged him to add this article to the
equipments of the army.  Her Majesty, smiling, said she thought this crutch so unworthy of
him that she hoped to induce him to give it up.  On returning home she despatched M. Campan
to Paris with orders to purchase at the celebrated Germain's the handsomest cane, with a gold
enamelled crutch, that he could find, and carry it without delay to Marechal Villars's hotel,
and present it to him from her.  He was announced accordingly, and fulfilled his commission.
The Marshal, in attending him to the door, requested him to express his gratitude to the Queen,
and said that he had nothing fit to offer to an officer who had the honour to belong to her
Majesty; but he begged him to accept of his old stick, saying that his grandchildren would
probably some day be glad to possess the cane with which he had commanded at Marchiennes and
Denain.  The known frugality of Marechal Villars appears in this anecdote; but he was not mistaken
with respect to the estimation in which his stick would be held.  It was thenceforth kept with
veneration by M. Campan's family.  On the 10th of August, 1792, a house which I occupied on
the Carrousel, at the entrance of the Court of the Tuileries, was pillaged and nearly burnt
down.  The cane of Marechal Villars was thrown into the Carrousel as of no value, and picked
up by my servant.  Had its old master been living at that period we should not have witnessed
such a deplorable day.

"Before the Revolution there were customs and words in use at Versailles with which few people
were acquainted.  The King's dinner was called 'The King's meat.'  Two of the Body Guard accompanied
the attendants who carried the dinner; every one rose as they passed through the halls, saying,
'There is the King's meat.'  All precautionary duties were distinguished by the words 'in case.'
One of the guards might be heard to say, 'I am in case in the forest of St. Germain.'  In the
evening they always brought the Queen a large bowl of broth, a cold roast fowl, one bottle
of wine, one of orgeat, one of lemonade, and some other articles, which were called the 'in
case' for the night.  An old medical gentleman, who had been physician in ordinary to Louis
XIV., and was still living at the time of the marriage of Louis XV., told M. Campan's father
an anecdote which seems too remarkable to have remained unknown; nevertheless he was a man
of honour, incapable of inventing this story. His name was Lafosse. He said that Louis XIV.
was informed that the officers of his table evinced, in the most disdainful and offensive manner,
the mortification they felt at being obliged to eat at the table of the comptroller of the
kitchen along with Moliere, valet de chambre to his Majesty, because Moliere had performed
on the stage; and that this celebrated author consequently declined appearing at that table.
Louis XIV., determined to put an end to insults which ought never to have been offered to one
of the greatest geniuses of the age, said to him one morning at the hour of his private levee,
'They say you live very poorly here, Moliere; and that the officers of my chamber do not find
you good enough to eat with them. Perhaps you are hungry; for my part I awoke with a very good
appetite this morning: sit down at this table.  Serve up my 'in case' for the night there.'
The King, then cutting up his fowl, and ordering Moliere to sit down, helped him to a wing,
at the same time taking one for himself, and ordered the persons entitled to familiar entrance,
that is to say the most distinguished and favourite people at Court, to be admitted.  'You
see me,' said the King to them, 'engaged in entertaining Moliere, whom my valets de chambre
do not consider sufficiently good company for them.' From that time Moliere never had occasion
to appear at the valets' table; the whole Court was forward enough to send him invitations.

"M. de Lafosse used also to relate that a brigade-major of the Body Guard, being ordered to
place the company in the little theatre at Versailles, very roughly turned out one of the King's
comptrollers who had taken his seat on one of the benches, a place to which his newly acquired
office entitled him.  In vain he insisted on his quality and his right.  The altercation was
ended by the brigade-major in these words: 'Gentlemen Body Guards, do your duty.'  In this
case their duty was to turn the offender out at the door.  This comptroller, who had paid sixty
or eighty thousand francs for his appointment, was a man of a good family, and had had the
honour of serving his Majesty five and twenty years in one of his regiments; thus ignominiously
driven out of the hall, he placed himself in the King's way in the great hall of the Guards,
and, bowing to his Majesty, requested him to vindicate the honour of an old soldier who had
wished to end his days in his Prince's civil employment, now that age had obliged him to relinquish
his military service.  The King stopped, heard his story, and then ordered him to follow him.
His Majesty attended the representation in a sort of amphitheatre, in which his armchair was
placed; behind him was a row of stools for the captain of the Guards, the first gentleman of
the chamber, and other great officers.  The brigade-major was entitled to one of these places;
the King stopped opposite the seat which ought to have been occupied by that officer and said
to the comptroller, 'Take, monsieur, for this evening, the place near my person of him who
has offended you, and let the expression of my displeasure at this unjust affront satisfy you
instead of any other reparation:

"During the latter years of the reign of Louis XIV. he never went out but in a chair carried
by porters, and he showed a great regard for a man named D'Aigremont, one of those porters
who always went in front and opened the door of the chair.  The slightest preference shown
by sovereigns, even to the meanest of their servants, never fails to excite observation.

[People of the very first rank did not disdain to descend to the level of D'Aigremont.  "Lauzun,"
said the Duchesse d'Orleans in her "Memoirs," "sometimes affects stupidity in order to show
people their own with impunity, for he is very malicious.  In order to make Marechal de Tease
feel the impropriety of his familiarity with people of the common sort, he called out, in the
drawing-room at Marly, 'Marechal, give me a pinch of snuff; some of your best, such as you
take in the morning with Monsieur d'Aigremont, the chairman.'"--NOTE BY THE EDITOR.]

The King had done something for this man's numerous family, and frequently talked to him. 
An abbe belonging to the chapel thought proper to request D'Aigremont to present a memorial
to the King, in which he requested his Majesty to grant him a benefice.  Louis XIV.  did not
approve of the liberty thus taken by his chairman, and said to him, in a very angry tone, 'D'Aigremont,
you have been made to do a very unbecoming act, and I am sure there must be simony in the case.'--'No,
Sire, there is not the least ceremony in the case, I assure you,' answered the poor man, in
great consternation; 'the abbe only said he would give me a hundred Louis.'--'D'Aigremont,'
said the King, 'I forgive you on account of your ignorance and candour.  I will give you the
hundred Louis out of my privy purse; but I will discharge you the very next time you venture
to present a memorial to me.'

"Louis XIV. was very kind to those of his servants who were nearest his person; but the moment
he assumed his royal deportment, those who were most accustomed to see him in his domestic
character were as much intimidated as if they were appearing in his presence for the first
time in their lives.  Some of the members of his Majesty's civil household, then called 'commensalite',
enjoying the title of equerry, and the privileges attached to officers of the King's household,
had occasion to claim some prerogatives, the exercise of which the municipal body of St. Germain,
where they resided, disputed with them.  Being assembled in considerable numbers in that town,
they obtained the consent of the minister of the household to allow them to send a deputation
to the King; and for that purpose chose from amongst them two of his Majesty's valets de chambre
named Bazire and Soulaigre.  The King's levee being over, the deputation of the inhabitants
of the town of St. Germain was called in. They entered with confidence; the King looked at
them, and assumed his imposing attitude.  Bazire, one of these valets de chambre, was about
to speak, but Louis the Great was looking on him.  He no longer saw the Prince he was accustomed
to attend at home; he was intimidated, and could not find words; he recovered, however, and
began as usual with the word Sire.  But timidity again overpowered him, and finding himself
unable to recollect the slightest particle of what he came to say, he repeated the word Sire
several times, and at length concluded by paying, 'Sire, here is Soulaigre.'  Soulaigre, who
was very angry with Bazire, and expected to acquit himself much better, then began to speak;
but he also, after repeating 'Sire' several times, found his embarrassment increasing upon
him, until his confusion equalled that of his colleague; he therefore ended with 'Sire, here
is Bazire.'  The King smiled, and answered, 'Gentlemen, I have been informed of the business
upon which you have been deputed to wait on me, and I will take care that what is right shall
be done.  I am highly satisfied with the manner in which you have fulfilled your functions
as deputies.'"

Mademoiselle Genet's education was the object of her father's particular attention.  Her progress
in the study of music and of foreign languages was surprising; Albaneze instructed her in singing,
and Goldoni taught her Italian.  Tasso, Milton, Dante, and even Shakespeare, soon became familiar
to her.  But her studies were particularly directed to the acquisition of a correct and elegant
style of reading.  Rochon de Chabannes, Duclos, Barthe, Marmontel, and Thomas took pleasure
in hearing her recite the finest scenes of Racine.  Her memory and genius at the age of fourteen
charmed them; they talked of her talents in society, and perhaps applauded them too highly.

She was soon spoken of at Court.  Some ladies of high rank, who took an interest in the welfare
of her family, obtained for her the place of Reader to the Princesses.  Her presentation, and
the circumstances which preceded it, left a strong impression on her mind.  "I was then fifteen,"
she says; "my father felt some regret at yielding me up at so early an age to the jealousies
of the Court.  The day on which I first put on my Court dress, and went to embrace him in his
study, tears filled his eyes, and mingled with the expression of his pleasure.  I possessed
some agreeable talents, in addition to the instruction which it had been his delight to bestow
on me.  He enumerated all my little accomplishments, to convince me of the vexations they would
not fail to draw upon me."

Mademoiselle Genet, at fifteen, was naturally less of a philosopher than her father was at
forty.  Her eyes were dazzled by the splendour which glittered at Versailles.  "The Queen,
Maria Leczinska, the wife of Louis XV., died," she says, "just before I was presented at Court.
The grand apartments hung with black, the great chairs of state, raised on several steps, and
surmounted by a canopy adorned with Plumes; the caparisoned horses, the immense retinue in
Court mourning, the enormous shoulder-knots, embroidered with gold and silver spangles, which
decorated the coats of the pages and footmen,--all this magnificence had such an effect on
my senses that I could scarcely support myself when introduced to the Princesses.  The first
day of my reading in the inner apartment of Madame Victoire I found it impossible to pronounce
more than two sentences; my heart palpitated, my voice faltered, and my sight failed. How well
understood was the potent magic of the grandeur and dignity which ought to surround sovereigns!
Marie Antoinette, dressed in white, with a plain straw hat, and a little switch in her hand,
walking on foot, followed by a single servant, through the walks leading to the Petit Trianon,
would never have thus disconcerted me; and I believe this extreme simplicity was the first
and only real mistake of all those with which she is reproached."

When once her awe and confusion had subsided, Mademoiselle Genet was enabled to form a more
accurate judgment of her situation.  It was by no means attractive; the Court of the Princesses,
far removed from the revels to which Louie XV. was addicted, was grave, methodical, and dull.
Madame Adelaide, the eldest of the Princesses, lived secluded in the interior of her apartments;
Madame Sophie was haughty; Madame Louise a devotee. Mademoiselle Genet never quitted the Princesses'
apartments; but she attached herself most particularly to Madame Victoire.  This Princess had
possessed beauty; her countenance bore an expression of benevolence, and her conversation was
kind, free, and unaffected.  The young reader excited in her that feeling which a woman in
years, of an affectionate disposition, readily extends to young people who are growing up in
her sight, and who possess some useful talents.  Whole days were passed in reading to the Princess,
as she sat at work in her apartment. Mademoiselle Genet frequently saw there Louis XV., of
whom she has related the following anecdote:

"One day, at the Chateau of Compiegne, the King came in whilst I was reading to Madame.  I
rose and went into another room.  Alone, in an apartment from which there was no outlet, with
no book but a Massillon, which I had been reading to the Princess, happy in all the lightness
and gaiety of fifteen, I amused myself with turning swiftly round, with my court hoop, and
suddenly kneeling down to see my rose-coloured silk petticoat swelled around me by the wind.
In the midst of this grave employment enters his Majesty, followed by one of the Princesses.
I attempt to rise; my feet stumble, and down I fall in the midst of my robes, puffed out by
the wind.  'Daughter,' said Louis XV., laughing heartily, 'I advise you to send back to school
a reader who makes cheeses.'"  The railleries of Louis XV. were often much more cutting, as
Mademoiselle Genet experienced on another occasion, which, thirty years afterwards, she could
not relate without an emotion of fear. "Louis XV.," she said, "had the most imposing presence.
His eyes remained fixed upon you all the time he was speaking; and, notwithstanding the beauty
of his features, he inspired a sort of fear. I was very young, it is true, when he first spoke
to me; you shall judge whether it was in a very gracious manner.  I was fifteen.  The King
was going out to hunt, and a numerous retinue followed him.  As he stopped opposite me he said,
'Mademoiselle Genet, I am assured you are very learned, and understand four or five foreign
languages.'--'I know only two, Sire,' I answered, trembling. 'Which are they?' English and
Italian.'--'Do you speak them fluently?' Yes, Sire, very fluently.' 'That is quite enough to
drive a husband mad.' After this pretty compliment the King went on; the retinue saluted me,
laughing; and, for my part, I remained for some moments motionless with surprise and confusion."

At the time when the French alliance was proposed by the Duc de Choiseul there was at Vienna
a doctor named Gassner,--[Jean Joseph Gassner, a pretender to miraculous powers.]--who had
fled thither to seek an asylum against the persecutions of his sovereign, one of the ecclesiastical
electors.  Gassner, gifted with an extraordinary warmth of imagination, imagined that he received
inspirations.  The Empress protected him, saw him occasionally, rallied him on his visions,
and, nevertheless, heard them with a sort of interest.  "Tell me,"--said she to him one day,
"whether my Antoinette will be happy."  Gassner turned pale, and remained silent.  Being still
pressed by the Empress, and wishing to give a general expression to the idea with which he
seemed deeply occupied, "Madame," he replied, "there are crosses for all shoulders."

The occurrences at the Place Louis XV. on the marriage festivities at Paris are generally known.
The conflagration of the scaffolds intended for the fireworks, the want of foresight of the
authorities, the avidity of robbers, the murderous career of the coaches, brought about and
aggravated the disasters of that day; and the young Dauphiness, coming from Versailles, by
the Cours la Reine, elated with joy, brilliantly decorated, and eager to witness the rejoicings
of the whole people, fled, struck with consternation and drowned in tears, from the dreadful
scene. This tragic opening of the young Princess's life in France seemed to bear out Gassner's
hint of disaster, and to be ominous of the terrible future which awaited her.

In the same year in which Marie Antoinette was married to the Dauphin, Henriette Genet married
a son of M. Campan, already mentioned as holding an office at the Court; and when the household
of the Dauphiness was formed, Madame Campan was appointed her reader, and received from Marie
Antoinette a consistent kindness and confidence to which by her loyal service she was fully
entitled.   Madame Campan's intelligence and vivacity made her much more sympathetic to a young
princess, gay and affectionate in disposition, and reared in the simplicity of a German Court,
than her lady of honour, the Comtesse de Noailles.  This respectable lady, who was placed near
her as a minister of the laws of etiquette, instead of alleviating their weight, rendered their
yoke intolerable to her.

"Madame de Noailles," says Madame Campan, "abounded in virtues.  Her piety, charity, and irreproachable
morals rendered her worthy of praise; but etiquette was to her a sort of atmosphere; at the
slightest derangement of the consecrated order, one would have thought the principles of life
would forsake her frame.

"One day I unintentionally threw this poor lady into a terrible agony. The Queen was receiving
I know not whom,--some persons just presented, I believe; the lady of honour, the Queen's tirewoman,
and the ladies of the bedchamber, were behind the Queen.  I was near the throne, with the two
women on duty.  All was right,--at least I thought so.  Suddenly I perceived the eyes of Madame
de Noailles fixed on mine.  She made a sign with her head, and then raised her eyebrows to
the top of her forehead, lowered them, raised them again, then began to make little signs with
her hand.  From all this pantomime, I could easily perceive that something was not as it should
be; and as I looked about on all sides to find out what it was, the agitation of the Countess
kept increasing.  The Queen, who perceived all this, looked at me with a smile; I found means
to approach her Majesty, who said to me in a whisper, 'Let down your lappets, or the Countess
will expire.'  All this bustle arose from two unlucky pins which fastened up my lappets, whilst
the etiquette of costume said 'Lappets hanging down.'"

Her contempt of the vanities of etiquette became the pretext for the first reproaches levelled
at the Queen.  What misconduct might not be dreaded from a princess who could absolutely go
out without a hoop! and who, in the salons of Trianon, instead of discussing the important
rights to chairs and stools, good-naturedly invited everybody to be seated.

[M. de Fresne Forget, being one day in company with the Queen Marguerite, told her he was astonished
how men and women with such great ruffs could eat soup without spoiling them; and still more
how the ladies could be gallant with their great fardingales.  The Queen made no answer at
that time, but a few days after, having a very large ruff on, and some 'bouili' to eat, she
ordered a very long spoon to be brought, and ate her 'bouili' with it, without soiling her
ruff.  Upon which, addressing herself to M. de Fresne, she said, laughing, "There now, you
see, with a little ingenuity one may manage anything."--"Yes, faith, madame," said the good
man, "as far as regards the soup I am satisfied."--LAPLACE's "Collection," vol. ii., p. 350.]

The anti-Austrian party, discontented and vindictive, became spies upon her conduct, exaggerated
her slightest errors, and calumniated her most innocent proceedings.  "What seems unaccountable
at the first glance," says Montjoie, "is that the first attack on the reputation of the Queen
proceeded from the bosom of the Court.  What interest could the courtiers have in seeking her
destruction, which involved that of the King?  Was it not drying up the source of all the advantages
they enjoyed, or could hope for?"

[Madame Campan relates the following among many anecdotes illustrative of the Queen's kindness
of heart: "A petition was addressed to the Queen by a corporation in the neighbourhood of Paris,
praying for the destruction of the game which destroyed their crops.  I was the bearer of this
petition to her Majesty, who said, 'I will undertake to have these good people relieved from
so great an annoyance.'  She gave the document to M. de Vermond in my presence, saying, 'I
desire that immediate justice be done to this petition.'  An assurance was given that her order
should be attended to, but six weeks afterwards a second petition was sent up, for the nuisance
had not been abated after all.  If the second petition had reached the Queen, M. de Vermond
would have received a sharp reprimand. She was always so happy when it was in her power to
do good."

The quick repartee, which was another of the Queen's characteristics, was less likely to promote
her popularity.  "M. Brunier," says Madame Campan, "was physician to the royal children. During
his visits to the palace, if the death of any of his patients was alluded to, he never failed
to say, 'Ah! there I lost one of my best friends!  'Well,' said the Queen, 'if he loses all
his patients who are his friends, what will become of those who are not?'"]

When the terrible Danton exclaimed, "The kings of Europe menace us; it behooves us to defy
them; let us throw down to them the head of a king as our gage!" these detestable words, followed
by so cruel a result, formed, however, a formidable stroke of policy.  But the Queen!  What
urgent reasons of state could Danton, Collot d'Herbois, and Robespierre allege against her?
What savage greatness did they discover in stirring up a whole nation to avenge their quarrel
on a woman?  What remained of her former power?  She was a captive, a widow, trembling for
her children! In those judges, who at once outraged modesty and nature; in that people whose
vilest scoffs pursued her to the scaffold, who could have recognised the generous people of
France?  Of all the crimes which disgraced the Revolution, none was more calculated to show
how the spirit of party can degrade the character of a nation.

The news of this dreadful event reached Madame Campan in an obscure retreat which she had chosen.
She had not succeeded in her endeavours to share the Queen's captivity, and she expected every
moment a similar fate. After escaping, almost miraculously, from the murderous fury of the
Marseillais; after being denounced and pursued by Robespierre, and entrusted, through the confidence
of the King and Queen, with papers of the utmost importance, Madame Campan went to Coubertin,
in the valley of Chevreuse.  Madame Auguid, her sister, had just committed suicide, at the
very moment of her arrest.

[Maternal affection prevailed over her religious sentiments; she wished to preserve the wreck
of her fortune for her children.  Had she deferred this fatal act for one day she would have
been saved; the cart which conveyed Robespierre to execution stopped her funeral procession!]

The scaffold awaited Madame Campan, when the 9th of Thermidor restored her to life; but did
not restore to her the most constant object of her thoughts, her zeal, and her devotion.

A new career now opened to Madame Campan.  At Coubertin, surrounded by her nieces, she was
fond of directing their studies.  This occupation caused her ideas to revert to the subject
of education, and awakened once more the inclinations of her youth.  At the age of twelve years
she could never meet a school of young ladies passing through the streets without feeling ambitious
of the situation and authority of their mistress.  Her abode at Court had diverted but not
altered her inclinations.  "A month after the fall of Robespierre," she says, "I considered
as to the means of providing for myself, for a mother seventy years of age, my sick husband,
my child nine years old, and part of my ruined family.  I now possessed nothing in the world
but an assignat of five hundred francs. I had become responsible for my husband's debts, to
the amount of thirty thousand francs.  I chose St. Germain to set up a boarding-school, for
that town did not remind me, as Versailles did, both of happy times and of the misfortunes
of France. I took with me a nun of l'Enfant-Jesus, to give an unquestionable pledge of my religious
principles.  The school of St. Germain was the first in which the opening of an oratory was
ventured on.  The Directory was displeased at it, and ordered it to be immediately shut up;
and some time after commissioners were sent to desire that the reading of the Scriptures should
be suppressed in my school.  I inquired what books were to be substituted in their stead. 
After some minutes' conversation, they observed: 'Citizeness, you are arguing after the old
fashion; no reflections.  The nation commands; we must have obedience, and no reasoning.' 
Not having the means of printing my prospectus, I wrote a hundred copies of it, and sent them
to the persons of my acquaintance who had survived the dreadful commotions.  At the year's
end I had sixty pupils; soon afterwards a hundred.  I bought furniture and paid my debts."

The rapid success of the establishment at St. Germain was undoubtedly owing to the talents,
experience, and excellent principles of Madame Campan, seconded by public opinion.  All property
had changed hands; all ranks found themselves confusedly jumbled by the shock of the Revolution:
the grand seigneur dined at the table of the opulent contractor; and the witty and elegant
marquise was present at the ball by the side of the clumsy peasant lately grown rich.  In the
absence of the ancient distinctions, elegant manners and polished language now formed a kind
of aristocracy.  The house of St. Germain, conducted by a lady who possessed the deportment
and the habits of the best society, was not only a school of knowledge, but a school of the world.

"A friend of Madame de Beauharnais," continues Madame Campan, "brought me her daughter Hortense
de Beauharnais, and her niece Emilie de Beauharnais. Six months afterwards she came to inform
me of her marriage with a Corsican gentleman, who had been brought up in the military school,
and was then a general.  I was requested to communicate this information to her daughter, who
long lamented her mother's change of name.  I was also desired to watch over the education
of little Eugene de Beauharnais, who was placed at St. Germain, in the same school with my son.

"A great intimacy sprang up between my nieces and these young people. Madame de Beauharnaias
set out for Italy, and left her children with me. On her return, after the conquests of Bonaparte,
that general, much pleased with the improvement of his stepdaughter, invited me to dine at
Malmaison, and attended two representations of 'Esther' at my school."

He also showed his appreciation of her talents by sending his sister Caroline to St. Germain.
Shortly before Caroline's marriage to Murat, and while she was yet at St. Germain, Napoleon
observed to Madame Campan: "I do not like those love matches between young people whose brains
are excited by the flames of the imagination.  I had other views for my sister.  Who knows
what high alliance I might have procured for her!  She is thoughtless, and does not form a
just notion of my situation.  The time will come when, perhaps, sovereigns might dispute for
her hand.  She is about to marry a brave man; but in my situation that is not enough. Fate
should be left to fulfil her decrees."

[Madame Murat one day said to Madame Campan: "I am astonished that you are not more awed in
our presence; you speak to us with as much familiarity as when we were your pupils!"--"The
best thing you can do," replied Madame Campan, "is to forget your titles when you are with
me, for I can never be afraid of queens whom I have held under the rod."]

Madame Campan dined at the Tuileries in company with the Pope's nuncio, at the period when
the Concordat was in agitation.  During dinner the First Consul astonished her by the able
manner in which he conversed on the subject under discussion.  She said he argued so logically
that his talent quite amazed her.  During the consulate Napoleon one day said to her, "If ever
I establish a republic of women, I shall make you First Consul."

Napoleon's views as to "woman's mission" are now well known.  Madame Campan said that she heard
from him that when he founded the convent of the Sisters of la Charite he was urgently solicited
to permit perpetual vows.  He, however, refused to do so, on the ground that tastes may change,
and that he did not see the necessity of excluding from the world women who might some time
or other return to it, and become useful members of society.  "Nunneries," he added, "assail
the very roots of population. It is impossible to calculate the loss which a nation sustains
in having ten thousand women shut up in cloisters.  War does but little mischief; for the number
of males is at least one-twenty-fifth greater than that of females.  Women may, if they please,
be allowed to make perpetual vows at fifty years of age; for then their task is fulfilled."

Napoleon once said to Madame Campan, "The old systems of education were good for nothing; what
do young women stand in need of, to be well brought up in France?"--"Of mothers," answered
Madame Campan.  "It is well said," replied Napoleon.  "Well, madame, let the French be indebted
to you for bringing up mothers for their children."--"Napoleon one day interrupted Madame de
Stael in the midst of a profound political argument to ask her whether she had nursed her children."

Never had the establishment at St. Germain been in a more flourishing condition than in 1802-3.
What more could Madame Campan wish?  For ten years absolute in her own house, she seemed also
safe from the caprice of power.  But the man who then disposed of the fate of France and Europe
was soon to determine otherwise.

After the battle of Austerlitz the State undertook to bring up, at the public expense, the
sisters, daughters, or nieces of those who were decorated with the Cross of Honour.  The children
of the warriors killed or wounded in glorious battle were to find paternal care in the ancient
abodes of the Montmorencys and the Condes.  Accustomed to concentrate around him all superior
talents, fearless himself of superiority, Napoleon sought for a person qualified by experience
and abilities to conduct the institution of Ecouen; he selected Madame Campan.

Comte de Lacepede, the pupil, friend, and rival of Buffon, then Grand Chancellor of the Legion
of Honour, assisted her with his enlightened advice.  Napoleon, who could descend with ease
from the highest political subjects to the examination of the most minute details; who was
as much at home in inspecting a boarding-school for young ladies as in reviewing the grenadiers
of his guard; whom it was impossible to deceive, and who was not unwilling to find fault when
he visited the establishment at Ecouen,--was forced to say, "It is all right."

[Napoleon wished to be informed of every particular of the furniture, government, and order
of the house, the instruction and education of the pupils.  The internal regulations were submitted
to him.  One of the intended rules, drawn up by Madame Campan, proposed that the children should
hear mass on Sundays and Thursdays. Napoleon himself wrote on the margin, "every day."]

"In the summer of 1811," relates Madame Campan, "Napoleon, accompanied by Marie Louise and
several personages of distinction, visited the establishment at Ecouen.  After inspecting the
chapel and the refectories, Napoleon desired that the three principal pupils might be presented
to him.  'Sire,' said I, 'I cannot select three; I must present six.'  He turned on his heel
and repaired to the platform, where, after seeing all the classes assembled, he repeated his
demand. No. 129. Old Woman Sleeping.

REMBRANDT AND HIS ETCHINGS

[No. 116.

Two Tramps.]

No. 116. Two Tramps.

“A fair & bewtiful citie, and of sweete situation” and famous for “ye universitie wherwith it
is adorned;” such was Leyden as the fresh eyes of the youthful William Bradford saw it when
the little company of English exiles, later revered as the Pilgrim Fathers, sought asylum in
Holland.

The fame of Leyden was to be further perpetuated, although Bradford knew it not, by one who had
but just been born there when the English pilgrims came to the friendly university town; one
who has added to the fame of his native place chiefly because he did not attend that university,
which seemed so attractive to young Bradford. The father of this boy determined that he should
have a collegiate education that he might sometime hold a town office,
and fondly hoped that he was preparing him for it (in, perhaps, the
very schools attended by the English children), when the lad made
it clear to all men that he had no head for Latin and a very decided
talent for drawing.

So it came to pass that at the time Bradford and his friends set their faces toward America,
and per-force turned their backs upon that “goodly & pleasante citie which had been ther resting
place near twelve years,” Rembrandt Harmens van Rijn, the youngest son of a miller of Leyden, turned
his face, too, from the old toward the new. They sought liberty to live and to worship according
to the bright light in their hearts: he, too, sought liberty to follow in a no less divinely
appointed path, impelled thereto by an irresistible force which, after half a century, retained all
its early vigor.

They broke from the ways of their fathers and bore an important part in the development of the great American
nation; he emancipated himself and his art from the thraldom of tradition and conventionality
and became the first of the great modern masters of art.

The twelve-years’ truce between the humiliated Dons and the stocky Dutchmen was now nearing its
end, and Bradford says, “There was nothing but beating of drumes, and preparing for warr.”
This was one of the reasons why the peaceable Pilgrims sought a new home beyond the sea. But Rembrandt,
already absorbed in his art-studies, saw nothing, heard nothing of
these preparations; his ears were deaf to the drum-beats, his eyes
were seeing better things than the “pride, pomp and circumstances
of glorious war”.

There can be no question about his utter lack of interest in things military. When, at long intervals,
he tried war-subjects (as most men sooner or later try their hand at the thing they are least
fitted for) he failed pitifully. He could create a masterpiece of a “Man in Armor,” or a “Night
Watch,” where the problems were purely artistic, and swords and flags were simply bits of fine
color, but the painting or etching that breathed the actual spirit
of war he could not produce.

There is matter here for rejoicing. War and her heroes have had their full quota of the great
artists to exalt their work. And now comes one who loved the paths of peace. With brush and etching-needle
he made record for all time of the dignity and rare beauty which he found in ordinary hum-drum
walks of life. We may even say that he exalted doctors and artists, housemaids and shopkeepers,
yea even the very street-beggars, into such important personages that their portraits are still
eagerly sought after by the great ones of the earth. It was during
the lifetime of Rembrandt (1606-1669) that much of the wonderful development
of Holland took place. She had come to her greatness gradually, but
by the middle of the seventeenth century she occupied a leading place
among the independent nations of Europe.  We feared that we had been betrayed; for on arriving
so precipitately before Paris all our plans were laid, and we did not expect the firm resistance
we experienced.'  I next conducted the Emperor to the chapel, and showed him the seats occupied
by 'le connetable' (the constable) of Montmorency, and 'la connetable' (the constable's lady),
when they went to hear mass.  'Barbarians like us,' observed the Emperor, 'would say la connetable
and le connetable.'

"The Czar inquired into the most minute particulars respecting the establishment of Ecouen,
and I felt great pleasure in answering his questions.  I recollect having dwelt on several
points which appeared to me to be very important, and which were in their spirit hostile to
aristocratic principles.  For example, I informed his Majesty that the daughters of distinguished
and wealthy individuals and those of the humble and obscure mingled indiscriminately in the
establishment.  'If,' said I, 'I were to observe the least pretension on account of the rank
or fortune of parents, I should immediately put an end to it.  The most perfect equality is
preserved; distinction is awarded only to merit and industry. The pupils are obliged to cut
out and make all their own clothes.  They are taught to clean and mend lace; and two at a time,
they by turns, three times a week, cook and distribute food to the poor of the village.  The
young girls who have been brought up at Ecouen, or in my boarding-school at St. Germain, are
thoroughly acquainted with everything relating to household business, and they are grateful
to me for having made that a part of their education.  In my conversations with them I have
always taught them that on domestic management depends the preservation or dissipation of their
fortunes.'

"The post-master of Ecouen was in the courtyard at the moment when the Emperor, as he stepped
into his carriage, told me he would send some sweetmeats for the pupils.  I immediately communicated
to them the intelligence, which was joyfully received; but the sweetmeats were looked for in
vain.  When Alexander set out for England he changed horses at Ecouen, and the post-master
said to him: 'Sire, the pupils of Ecouen are still expecting the sweetmeats which your Majesty
promised them.'  To which the Emperor replied that he had directed Saken to send them.  The
Cossacks had most likely devoured the sweetmeats, and the poor little girls, who had been so
highly flattered by the promise, never tasted them."

"A second house was formed at St. Denis, on the model of that of Ecouen. Perhaps Madame Campan
might have hoped for a title to which her long labours gave her a right; perhaps the superintendence
of the two houses would have been but the fair recompense of her services; but her fortunate
years had passed her fate was now to depend on the most important events. Napoleon had accumulated
such a mass of power as no one but himself in Europe could overturn.  France, content with
thirty years of victories, in vain asked for peace and repose.  The army which had triumphed
in the sands of Egypt, on the summits of the Alps, and in the marshes of Holland, was to perish
amidst the snows of Russia. Nations combined against a single man.  The territory of France
was invaded.  The orphans of Ecouen, from the windows of the mansion which served as their
asylum, saw in the distant plain the fires of the Russian bivouacs, and once more wept the
deaths of their fathers.  Paris capitulated.  France hailed the return of the descendants of
Henri IV.; they reascended the throne so long filled by their ancestors, which the wisdom of
an enlightened prince established on the empire of the laws.

[A lady, connected with the establishment of St. Denis, told Madame Campan that Napoleon visited
it during the Hundred Days, and that the pupils were so delighted to see him that they crowded
round him, endeavouring to touch his clothes, and evincing the most extravagant joy. Had they not
paid for portraits of themselves? And they got—what? Here a face in deep shadow, here one
half-hid by the one in front, here one so freely drawn as to be unrecognizable.

The artist had made a picture, to be sure—but their portraits!
  The
hatred of her enemies had revived.  The suppression of the school at Ecouen had deprived her
of her position; the most absurd calumnies followed her into her retreat; her attachment to
the Queen was suspected; she was accused not only of ingratitude but of perfidy.  Slander has
little effect on youth, but in the decline of life its darts are envenomed with a mortal poison.
The wounds which Madame Campan had received were deep.  Her sister, Madame Auguie, had destroyed
herself; M. Rousseau, her brother-in-law, had perished, a victim of the reign of terror.  In
1813 a dreadful accident had deprived her of her niece, Madame de Broc, one of the most amiable
and interesting beings that ever adorned the earth.  Madame Campan seemed destined to behold
those whom she loved go down to the grave before her.

Beyond the walls of the mansion of Ecouen, in the village which surrounds it, Madame Campan
had taken a small house where she loved to pass a few hours in solitary retirement.  There,
at liberty to abandon herself to the memory of the past, the superintendent of the imperial
establishment became, once more, for the moment, the first lady of the chamber to Marie Antoinette.
To the few friends whom she admitted into this retreat she would show, with emotion, a plain
muslin gown which the Queen had worn, and which was made from a part of Tippoo Saib's present.
A cup, out of which Marie Antoinette had drunk; a writing-stand, which she had long used, were,
in her eyes, of inestimable value; and she has often been discovered sitting, in tears, before
the portrait of her royal mistress.

After so many troubles Madame Campan sought a peaceful retreat.  Paris had become odious to her.

She paid a visit to one of her most beloved pupils, Mademoiselle Crouzet, who had married a
physician at Mantes, a man of talent, distinguished for his intelligence, frankness, and cordiality. 

Despite the incongruities of his Biblical compositions, despite the broad Dutch features, the
modern, gorgeous apparel and side-whiskers of the patriarchs, the
pugilistic proportions of his angels, his etchings have a truth and
vital force that there is no withstanding.

  A few
intimate friends formed a pleasant society, and she enjoyed a little tranquillity after so
many disturbances.  The revisal of her "Memoirs," the arrangement of the interesting anecdotes
of which her "Recollections" were to consist, alone diverted her mind from the one powerful
sentiment which attached her to life.  She lived only for her son.  M. Campan deserved the
tenderness of, his mother.  No sacrifice had been spared for his education.  After having pursued
that course of study which, under the Imperial Government, produced men of such distinguished
merit, he was waiting till time and circumstances should afford him an opportunity of devoting
his services to his country.  Although the state of his health was far from good, it did not
threaten any rapid or premature decay; he was, however, after a few days' illness, suddenly
taken from his family.  "I never witnessed so heartrending a scene," M. Maigne says, "as that
which took place when Marechal Ney's lady, her niece, and Madame Pannelier, her sister, came
to acquaint her with this misfortune.--[The wife of Marechal Ney was a daughter of Madame Auguie,
and had been an intimate friend of Hortense Beauharnais.]--When they entered her apartment
she was in bed.  All three at once uttered a piercing cry.  The two ladies threw themselves
on their knees, and kissed her hands, which they bedewed with tears.  Before they could speak
to her she read in their faces that she no longer possessed a son.  At that instant her large
eyes, opening wildly, seemed to wander.  Her face grew pale, her features changed, her lips
lost their colour, she struggled to speak, but uttered only inarticulate sounds, accompanied
by piercing cries.  Her gestures were wild, her reason was suspended.  Every part of her being
was in agony.  To this state of anguish and despair no calm succeeded, until her tears began
to flow.  Friendship and the tenderest cares succeeded for a moment in calming her grief, but
not in diminishing its power. 

They are, like all his etchings, rapidly increasing in value. A “Jan Six” sold recently for over
$14,000; an “Ephraim Bonus” (No. 226) for $9,000. To possess such a portrait of an ancestor is
little short of a patent of nobility. The Six family of Amsterdam happily have not only Rembrandt’s
oil-portraits of the Sixes of his day, but also good impressions of the etching of the burgomaster,
and even the plate itself—that famous dry-point plate, which the artist worked on for weeks, and which
his critics have worked over ever since.  No unfavourable symptoms appeared;
Madame Campan was thought to be restored to her friends; but the disorder was in the blood;
it took another course: the chest became affected.  "From that moment," says M. Maigne, "I
could never look on Madame Campan as living; she herself felt that she belonged no more to
this world."

"My friend," she said to her physician the day before her death, "I am attached to the simplicity
of religion.  I hate all that savours of fanaticism."  When her codicil was presented for her
signature, her hand trembled; "It would be a pity," she said, "to stop when so fairly on the road."

Madame Campan died on the 16th of March, 1822.  The cheerfulness she displayed throughout her
malady had nothing affected in it.  Her character was naturally powerful and elevated.  At
the approach of death she evinced the soul of a sage, without abandoning for an instant her
feminine character.

