She laid down the brush and leaned her chin on her clasped hands.... Even now she could not
understand what had made her take the cigars. She had always been alive to the value of her
inherited scruples: her reasoned opinions were unusually free, but with regard to the things
one couldn't reason about she was oddly tenacious. And yet she had taken Streffy's cigars!
She had taken them--yes, that was the point--she had taken them for Nick, because the desire
to please him, to make the smallest details of his life easy and agreeable and luxurious, had
become her absorbing preoccupation. She had committed, for him, precisely the kind of little
baseness she would most have scorned to commit for herself; and, since he hadn't instantly
felt the difference, she would never be able to explain it to him.

She stood up with a sigh, shook out her loosened hair, and glanced around the great frescoed
room. The maid-servant had said something about the Signora's having left a letter for her;
and there it lay on the writing-table, with her mail and Nick's; a thick envelope addressed
in Ellie's childish scrawl, with a glaring "Private" dashed across the corner.

"What on earth can she have to say, when she hates writing so," Susy mused.

She broke open the envelope, and four or five stamped and sealed letters fell from it. All
were addressed, in Ellie's hand, to Nelson Vanderlyn Esqre; and in the corner of each was faintly
pencilled a number and a date: one, two, three, four--with a week's interval between the dates.

"Goodness--" gasped Susy, understanding.

She had dropped into an armchair near the table, and for a long time she sat staring at the
numbered letters. A sheet of paper covered with Ellie's writing had fluttered out among them,
but she let it lie; she knew so well what it would say! She knew all about her friend, of course;
except poor old Nelson, who didn't, But she had never imagined that Ellie would dare to use
her in this way. It was unbelievable... she had never pictured anything so vile.... The blood
rushed to her face, and she sprang up angrily, half minded to tear the letters in bits and
throw them all into the fire.

She heard her husband's knock on the door between their rooms, and swept the dangerous packet
under the blotting-book.

"Oh, go away, please, there's a dear," she called out; "I haven't finished unpacking, and everything's
in such a mess." Gathering up Nick's papers and letters, she ran across the room and thrust
them through the door. "Here's something to keep you quiet," she laughed, shining in on him
an instant from the threshold.

She turned back feeling weak with shame. Ellie's letter lay on the floor: reluctantly she stooped
to pick it up, and one by one the expected phrases sprang out at her.

"One good turn deserves another.... Of course you and Nick are welcome to stay all summer....
There won't be a particle of expense for you--the servants have orders.... If you'll just be
an angel and post these letters yourself.... It's been my only chance for such an age; when
we meet I'll explain everything. And in a month at latest I'll be back to fetch Clarissa...."

Susy lifted the letter to the lamp to be sure she had read aright. To fetch Clarissa! Then
Ellie's child was here? Here, under the roof with them, left to their care? She read on, raging.
"She's so delighted, poor darling, to know you're coming. I've had to sack her beastly governess
for impertinence, and if it weren't for you she'd be all alone with a lot of servants I don't
much trust. So for pity's sake be good to my child, and forgive me for leaving her. She thinks
I've gone to take a cure; and she knows she's not to tell her Daddy that I'm away, because
it would only worry him if he thought I was ill. She's perfectly to be trusted; you'll see
what a clever angel she is...." And then, at the bottom of the page, in a last slanting postscript:
"Susy darling, if you've ever owed me anything in the way of kindness, you won't, on your sacred
honour, say a word of this to any one, even to Nick. And I know I can count on you to rub out
the numbers."

Susy sprang up and tossed Mrs. Vanderlyn's letter into the fire: then she came slowly back
to the chair. There, at her elbow, lay the four fatal envelopes; and her next affair was to
make up her mind what to do with them.

To destroy them on the spot had seemed, at first thought, inevitable: it might be saving Ellie
as well as herself. But such a step seemed to Susy to involve departure on the morrow, and
this in turn involved notifying Ellie, whose letter she had vainly scanned for an address.
Well--perhaps Clarissa's nurse would know where one could write to her mother; it was unlikely
that even Ellie would go off without assuring some means of communication with her child. At
any rate, there was nothing to be done that night: nothing but to work out the details of their
flight on the morrow, and rack her brains to find a substitute for the hospitality they were
rejecting. Susy did not disguise from herself how much she had counted on the Vanderlyn apartment
for the summer: to be able to do so had singularly simplified the future. She knew Ellie's
largeness of hand, and had been sure in advance that as long as they were her guests their
only expense would be an occasional present to the servants. And what would the alternative
be? She and Lansing, in their endless talks, had so lived themselves into the vision of indolent
summer days on the lagoon, of flaming hours on the beach of the Lido, and evenings of music
and dreams on their broad balcony above the Giudecca, that the idea of having to renounce these
joys, and deprive her Nick of them, filled Susy with a wrath intensified by his having confided
in her that when they were quietly settled in Venice he "meant to write." Already nascent in
her breast was the fierce resolve of the author's wife to defend her husband's privacy and
facilitate his encounters with the Muse. It was abominable, simply abominable, that Ellie Vanderlyn
should have drawn her into such a trap!

Well--there was nothing for it but to make a clean breast of the whole thing to Nick. The trivial
incident of the cigars-how trivial it now seemed!--showed her the kind of stand he would take,
and communicated to her something of his own uncompromising energy. She would tell him the
whole story in the morning, and try to find a way out with him: Susy's faith in her power of
finding a way out was inexhaustible. But suddenly she remembered the adjuration at the end
of Mrs. Vanderlyn's letter: "If you're ever owed me anything in the way of kindness, you won't,
on your sacred honour, say a word to Nick...."

It was, of course, exactly what no one had the right to ask of her: if indeed the word "right",
could be used in any conceivable relation to this coil of wrongs. But the fact remained that,
in the way of kindness, she did owe much to Ellie; and that this was the first payment her
friend had ever exacted. She found herself, in fact, in exactly the same position as when Ursula
Gillow, using the same argument, had appealed to her to give up Nick Lansing. Yes, Susy reflected;
but then Nelson Vanderlyn had been kind to her too; and the money Ellie had been so kind with
was Nelson's.... The queer edifice of Susy's standards tottered on its base she honestly didn't
know where fairness lay, as between so much that was foul.

The very depth of her perplexity puzzled her. She had been in "tight places" before; had indeed
been in so few that were not, in one way or another, constricting! As she looked back on her
past it lay before her as a very network of perpetual concessions and contrivings. But never
before had she had such a sense of being tripped up, gagged and pinioned. The little misery
of the cigars still galled her, and now this big humiliation superposed itself on the raw wound.
Decidedly, the second month of their honey-moon was beginning cloudily....

She glanced at the enamel led travelling-clock on her dressing table--one of the few wedding-presents
she had consented to accept in kind--and was startled at the lateness of the hour. In a moment
Nick would be coming; and an uncomfortable sensation in her throat warned her that through
sheer nervousness and exasperation she might blurt out something ill-advised. The old habit
of being always on her guard made her turn once more to the looking-glass. Her face was pale
and haggard; and having, by a swift and skilful application of cosmetics, increased its appearance
of fatigue, she crossed the room and softly opened her husband's door.

He too sat by a lamp, reading a letter which he put aside as she entered. His face was grave,
and she said to herself that he was certainly still thinking about the cigars.

"I'm very tired, dearest, and my head aches so horribly that I've come to bid you good-night."
Bending over the back of his chair, she laid her arms on his shoulders. He lifted his hands
to clasp hers, but, as he threw his head back to smile up at her she noticed that his look
was still serious, almost remote. It was as if, for the first time, a faint veil hung between
his eyes and hers.

"I'm so sorry: it's been a long day for you," he said absently, pressing his lips to her hands

She felt the dreaded twitch in her throat.

"Nick!" she burst out, tightening her embrace, "before I go, you've got to swear to me on your
honour that you know I should never have taken those cigars for myself!"

For a moment he stared at her, and she stared back at him with equal gravity; then the same
irresistible mirth welled up in both, and Susy's compunctions were swept away on a gale of
laughter.

When she woke the next morning the sun was pouring in between her curtains of old brocade,
and its refraction from the ripples of the Canal was drawing a network of golden scales across
the vaulted ceiling. The maid had just placed a tray on a slim marquetry table near the bed,
and over the edge of the tray Susy discovered the small serious face of Clarissa Vanderlyn.
At the sight of the little girl all her dormant qualms awoke.

Clarissa was just eight, and small for her age: her little round chin was barely on a level
with the tea-service, and her clear brown eyes gazed at Susy between the ribs of the toast-rack
and the single tea-rose in an old Murano glass. Susy had not seen her for two years, and she
seemed, in the interval, to have passed from a thoughtful infancy to complete ripeness of feminine
experience. She was looking with approval at her mother's guest.

"I'm so glad you've come," she said in a small sweet voice. "I like you so very much. I know
I'm not to be often with you; but at least you'll have an eye on me, won't you?"

"An eye on you! I shall never want to have it off you, if you say such nice things to me!"
Susy laughed, leaning from her pillows to draw the little girl up to her side.

Clarissa smiled and settled herself down comfortably on the silken bedspread. "Oh, I know I'm
not to be always about, because you're just married; but could you see to it that I have my
meals regularly?"

"Why, you poor darling! Don't you always?"

"Not when mother's away on these cures. The servants don't always obey me: you see I'm so little
for my age. In a few years, of course, they'll have to--even if I don't grow much," she added
judiciously. She put out her hand and touched the string of pearls about Susy's throat. "They're
small, but they're very good. I suppose you don't take the others when you travel?"

"The others? Bless you! I haven't any others--and never shall have, probably."

"No other pearls?"

"No other jewels at all."

Clarissa stared. "Is that really true?" she asked, as if in the presence of the unprecedented.

"Awfully true," Susy confessed. "But I think I can make the servants obey me all the same."

This point seemed to have lost its interest for Clarissa, who was still gravely scrutinizing
her companion. After a while she brought forth another question.

"Did you have to give up all your jewels when you were divorced?"

"Divorced--?" Susy threw her head back against the pillows and laughed. "Why, what are you
thinking of? Don't you remember that I wasn't even married the last time you saw me?"

"Yes; I do. But that was two years ago." The little girl wound her arms about Susy's neck and
leaned against her caressingly. "Are you going to be soon, then? I'll promise not to tell if
you don't want me to."

"Going to be divorced? Of course not! What in the world made you think so? "

"Because you look so awfully happy," said Clarissa Vanderlyn simply.

V.

IT was a trifling enough sign, but it had remained in Susy's mind: that first morning in Venice
Nick had gone out without first coming in to see her. She had stayed in bed late, chatting
with Clarissa, and expecting to see the door open and her husband appear; and when the child
left, and she had jumped up and looked into Nick's room, she found it empty, and a line on
his dressing table informed her that he had gone out to send a telegram.

It was lover-like, and even boyish, of him to think it necessary to explain his absence; but
why had he not simply come in and told her! She instinctively connected the little fact with
the shade of preoccupation she had noticed on his face the night before, when she had gone
to his room and found him absorbed in letter; and while she dressed she had continued to wonder
what was in the letter, and whether the telegram he had hurried out to send was an answer to it.

She had never found out. When he reappeared, handsome and happy as the morning, he proffered
no explanation; and it was part of her life-long policy not to put uncalled-for questions.
It was not only that her jealous regard for her own freedom was matched by an equal respect
for that of others; she had steered too long among the social reefs and shoals not to know
how narrow is the passage that leads to peace of mind, and she was determined to keep her little
craft in mid-channel. But the incident had lodged itself in her memory, acquiring a sort of
symbolic significance, as of a turning-point in her relations with her husband. Not that these
were less happy, but that she now beheld them, as she had always formerly beheld such joys,
as an unstable islet in a sea of storms. Her present bliss was as complete as ever, but it
was ringed by the perpetual menace of all she knew she was hiding from Nick, and of all she
suspected him of hiding from her....

She was thinking of these things one afternoon about three weeks after their arrival in Venice.
It was near sunset, and she sat alone on the balcony, watching the cross-lights on the water
weave their pattern above the flushed reflection of old palace-basements. She was almost always
alone at that hour. Nick had taken to writing in the afternoons--he had been as good as his
word, and so, apparently, had the Muse and it was his habit to join his wife only at sunset,
for a late row on the lagoon. She had taken Clarissa, as usual, to the Giardino Pubblico, where
that obliging child had politely but indifferently "played"--Clarissa joined in the diversions
of her age as if conforming to an obsolete tradition--and had brought her back for a music
lesson, echoes of which now drifted down from a distant window.

Susy had come to be extremely thankful for Clarissa. But for the little girl, her pride in
her husband's industry might have been tinged with a faint sense of being at times left out
and forgotten; and as Nick's industry was the completest justification for their being where
they were, and for her having done what she had, she was grateful to Clarissa for helping her
to feel less alone. Clarissa, indeed, represented the other half of her justification: it was
as much on the child's account as on Nick's that Susy had held her tongue, remained in Venice,
and slipped out once a week to post one of Ellie's numbered letters. A day's experience of
the Palazzo Vanderlyn had convinced Susy of the impossibility of deserting Clarissa. Long experience
had shown her that the most crowded households often contain the loneliest nurseries, and that
the rich child is exposed to evils unknown to less pampered infancy; but hitherto such things
had merely been to her one of the uglier bits in the big muddled pattern of life. Now she found
herself feeling where before she had only judged: her precarious bliss came to her charged
with a new weight of pity.

She was thinking of these things, and of the approaching date of Ellie Vanderlyn's return,
and of the searching truths she was storing up for that lady's private ear, when she noticed
a gondola turning its prow toward the steps below the balcony. She leaned over, and a tall
gentleman in shabby clothes, glancing up at her as he jumped out, waved a mouldy Panama in
joyful greeting.

"Streffy!" she exclaimed as joyfully; and she was half-way down the stairs when he ran up them
followed by his luggage-laden boatman.

"It's all right, I suppose?--Ellie said I might come," he explained in a shrill cheerful voice;
"and I'm to have my same green room with the parrot-panels, because its furniture is already
so frightfully stained with my hair-wash."

Susy was beaming on him with the deep sense of satisfaction which his presence always produced
in his friends. There was no one in the world, they all agreed, half as ugly and untidy and
delightful as Streffy; no one who combined such outspoken selfishness with such imperturbable
good humour; no one who knew so well how to make you believe he was being charming to you when
it was you who were being charming to him.

In addition to these seductions, of which none estimated the value more accurately than their
possessor, Strefford had for Susy another attraction of which he was probably unconscious.
It was that of being the one rooted and stable being among the fluid and shifting figures that
composed her world. Susy had always lived among people so denationalized that those one took
for Russians generally turned out to be American, and those one was inclined to ascribe to
New York proved to have originated in Rome or Bucharest. These cosmopolitan people, who, in
countries not their own, lived in houses as big as hotels, or in hotels where the guests were
as international as the waiters, had inter-married, inter-loved and inter-divorced each other
over the whole face of Europe, and according to every code that attempts to regulate human
ties. Strefford, too, had his home in this world, but only one of his homes. The other, the
one he spoke of, and probably thought of, least often, was a great dull English country-house
in a northern county, where a life as monotonous and self-contained as his own was chequered
and dispersed had gone on for generation after generation; and it was the sense of that house,
and of all it typified even to his vagrancy and irreverence, which, coming out now and then
in his talk, or in his attitude toward something or somebody, gave him a firmer outline and
a steadier footing than the other marionettes in the dance. Superficially so like them all,
and so eager to outdo them in detachment and adaptability, ridiculing the prejudices he had
shaken off, and the people to whom he belonged, he still kept, under his easy pliancy, the
skeleton of old faiths and old fashions. "He talks every language as well as the rest of us,"
Susy had once said of him, "but at least he talks one language better than the others"; and
Strefford, told of the remark, had laughed, called her an idiot, and been pleased.

As he shambled up the stairs with her, arm in arm, she was thinking of this quality with a
new appreciation of its value. Even she and Lansing, in spite of their unmixed Americanism,
their substantial background of old-fashioned cousinships in New York and Philadelphia, were
as mentally detached, as universally at home, as touts at an International Exhibition. If they
were usually recognized as Americans it was only because they spoke French so well, and because
Nick was too fair to be "foreign," and too sharp-featured to be English. But Charlie Strefford
was English with all the strength of an inveterate habit; and something in Susy was slowly
waking to a sense of the beauty of habit.

Lounging on the balcony, whither he had followed her without pausing to remove the stains of
travel, Strefford showed himself immensely interested in the last chapter of her history, greatly
pleased at its having been enacted under his roof, and hugely and flippantly amused at the
firmness with which she refused to let him see Nick till the latter's daily task was over.

"Writing? Rot! What's he writing? He's breaking you in, my dear; that's what he's doing: establishing
an alibi. What'll you bet he's just sitting there smoking and reading Le Rire? Let's go and see."

But Susy was firm. "He's read me his first chapter: it's wonderful. It's a philosophic romance--rather
like Marius, you know."

"Oh, yes--I do!" said Strefford, with a laugh that she thought idiotic.

She flushed up like a child. "You're stupid, Streffy. You forget that Nick and I don't need
alibis. We've got rid of all that hyprocrisy by agreeing that each will give the other a hand
up when either of us wants a change. We've not married to spy and lie, and nag each other;
we've formed a partnership for our mutual advantage."

"I see; that's capital. But how can you be sure that, when Nick wants a change, you'll consider
it for his advantage to have one?"

It was the point that had always secretly tormented Susy; she often wondered if it equally
tormented Nick.

"I hope I shall have enough common sense--" she began.

"Oh, of course: common sense is what you're both bound to base your argument on, whichever
way you argue."

This flash of insight disconcerted her, and she said, a little irritably: "What should you
do then, if you married?--Hush, Streffy! I forbid you to shout like that--all the gondolas
are stopping to look!"

"How can I help it?" He rocked backward and forward in his chair. "'If you marry,' she says:
'Streffy, what have you decided to do if you suddenly become a raving maniac?'"

"I said no such thing. If your uncle and your cousin died, you'd marry to-morrow; you know
you would."

"Oh, now you're talking business." He folded his long arms and leaned over the balcony, looking
down at the dusky ripples streaked with fire. "In that case I should say: 'Susan, my dear--Susan--now
that by the merciful intervention of Providence you have become Countess of Altringham in the
peerage of Great Britain, and Baroness Dunsterville and d'Amblay in the peerages of Ireland
and Scotland, I'll thank you to remember that you are a member of one of the most ancient houses
in the United Kingdom--and not to get found out.'"

Susy laughed. "We know what those warnings mean! I pity my namesake."

He swung about and gave her a quick look out of his small ugly twinkling eyes. "Is there any
other woman in the world named Susan?"

"I hope so, if the name's an essential. Even if Nick chucks me, don't count on me to carry
out that programme. I've seen it in practice too often."

"Oh, well: as far as I know, everybody's in perfect health at Altringham." He fumbled in his
pocket and drew out a fountain pen, a handkerchief over which it had leaked, and a packet of
dishevelled cigarettes. Lighting one, and restoring the other objects to his pocket, he continued
calmly: "Tell me how did you manage to smooth things over with the Gillows? Ursula was running
amuck when I was in Newport last Summer; it was just when people were beginning to say that
you were going to marry Nick. I was afraid she'd put a spoke in your wheel; and I hear she
put a big cheque in your hand instead."

Susy was silent. From the first moment of Strefford's appearance she had known that in the
course of time he would put that question. He was as inquisitive as a monkey, and when he had
made up his mind to find out anything it was useless to try to divert his attention. After
a moment's hesitation she said: "I flirted with Fred. It was a bore but he was very decent."

"He would be--poor Fred. And you got Ursula thoroughly frightened!"

"Well--enough. And then luckily that young Nerone Altineri turned up from Rome: he went over
to New York to look for a job as an engineer, and Ursula made Fred put him in their iron works."
She paused again, and then added abruptly: "Streffy! If you knew how I hate that kind of thing.
I'd rather have Nick come in now and tell me frankly, as I know he would, that he's going off
with--"

"With Coral Hicks?" Strefford suggested.

She laughed. "Poor Coral Hicks! What on earth made you think of the Hickses?"

"Because I caught a glimpse of them the other day at Capri. They're cruising about: they said
they were coming in here."

"What a nuisance! I do hope they won't find us out. They were awfully kind to Nick when he
went to India with them, and they're so simple-minded that they would expect him to be glad
to see them."

Strefford aimed his cigarette-end at a tourist on a puggaree who was gazing up from his guidebook
at the palace. "Ah," he murmured with satisfaction, seeing the shot take effect; then he added:
"Coral Hicks is growing up rather pretty."

"Oh, Streff--you're dreaming! That lump of a girl with spectacles and thick ankles! Poor Mrs.
Hicks used to say to Nick: 'When Mr. Hicks and I had Coral educated we presumed culture was
in greater demand in Europe than it appears to be.'"

"Well, you'll see: that girl's education won't interfere with her, once she's started. So then:
if Nick came in and told you he was going off--"

"I should be so thankful if it was with a fright like Coral! But you know," she added with
a smile, "we've agreed that it's not to happen for a year."

VI.

SUSY found Strefford, after his first burst of nonsense, unusually kind and responsive. The
interest he showed in her future and Nick's seemed to proceed not so much from his habitual
spirit of scientific curiosity as from simple friendliness. He was privileged to see Nick's
first chapter, of which he formed so favourable an impression that he spoke sternly to Susy
on the importance of respecting her husband's working hours; and he even carried his general
benevolence to the length of showing a fatherly interest in Clarissa Vanderlyn. He was always
charming to children, but fitfully and warily, with an eye on his independence, and on the
possibility of being suddenly bored by them; Susy had never seen him abandon these precautions
so completely as he did with Clarissa.

"Poor little devil! Who looks after her when you and Nick are off together? Do you mean to
tell me Ellie sacked the governess and went away without having anyone to take her place?"

"I think she expected me to do it," said Susy with a touch of asperity. There were moments
when her duty to Clarissa weighed on her somewhat heavily; whenever she went off alone with
Nick she was pursued by the vision of a little figure waving wistful farewells from the balcony.

"Ah, that's like Ellie: you might have known she'd get an equivalent when she lent you all
this. But I don't believe she thought you'd be so conscientious about it."

Susy considered. "I don't suppose she did; and perhaps I shouldn't have been, a year ago. But
you see"--she hesitated--"Nick's so awfully good: it's made me look; at a lot of things differently...."

"Oh, hang Nick's goodness! It's happiness that's done it, my dear. You're just one of the people
with whom it happens to agree."

Susy, leaning back, scrutinized between her lashes his crooked ironic face.

"What is it that's agreeing with you, Streffy? I've never seen you so human. You must be getting
an outrageous price for the villa."

Strefford laughed and clapped his hand on his breast-pocket. "I should be an ass not to: I've
got a wire here saying they must have it for another month at any price."

"What luck! I'm so glad. Who are they, by the way?"

He drew himself up out of the long chair in which he was disjointedly lounging, and looked
down at her with a smile. "Another couple of love-sick idiots like you and Nick.... I say,
before I spend it all let's go out and buy something ripping for Clarissa."

The days passed so quickly and radiantly that, but for her concern for Clarissa, Susy would
hardly have been conscious of her hostess's protracted absence. Mrs. Vanderlyn had said: "Four
weeks at the latest," and the four weeks were over, and she had neither arrived nor written
to explain her non-appearance. She had, in fact, given no sign of life since her departure,
save in the shape of a post-card which had reached Clarissa the day after the Lansings' arrival,
and in which Mrs. Vanderlyn instructed her child to be awfully good, and not to forget to feed
the mongoose. Susy noticed that this missive had been posted in Milan.

She communicated her apprehensions to Strefford. "I don't trust that green-eyed nurse. She's
forever with the younger gondolier; and Clarissa's so awfully sharp. I don't see why Ellie
hasn't come: she was due last Monday."

Her companion laughed, and something in the sound of his laugh suggested that he probably knew
as much of Ellie's movements as she did, if not more. The sense of disgust which the subject
always roused in her made her look away quickly from his tolerant smile. She would have given
the world, at that moment, to have been free to tell Nick what she had learned on the night
of their arrival, and then to have gone away with him, no matter where. But there was Clarissa--!

To fortify herself against the temptation, she resolutely fixed her thoughts on her husband.
Of Nick's beatitude there could be no doubt. He adored her, he revelled in Venice, he rejoiced
in his work; and concerning the quality of that work her judgment was as confident as her heart.
She still doubted if he would ever earn a living by what he wrote, but she no longer doubted
that he would write something remarkable. The mere fact that he was engaged on a philosophic
romance, and not a mere novel, seemed the proof of an intrinsic superiority. And if she had
mistrusted her impartiality Strefford's approval would have reassured her. Among their friends
Strefford passed as an authority on such matters: in summing him up his eulogists always added:
"And you know he writes." As a matter of fact, the paying public had remained cold to his few
published pages; but he lived among the kind of people who confuse taste with talent, and are
impressed by the most artless attempts at literary expression; and though he affected to disdain
their judgment, and his own efforts, Susy knew he was not sorry to have it said of him: "Oh,
if only Streffy had chosen--!"

