The divisions in the arts are almost all in the first instance technical, and the great schools
of drama have been divided from one another by the form or the metal of their mirror, by the
check chosen for the rapidity of dialogue. Synge found the check that suited his temperament
in an elaboration of the dialects of Kerry and Aran. The cadence is long and meditative, as
befits the thought of men who are much alone, and who when they meet in one another's houses--as
their way is at the day's end--listen patiently, each man speaking in turn and for some little
time, and taking pleasure in the vaguer meaning of the words and in their sound. Their thought,
when not merely practical, is as full of traditional wisdom and extravagant pictures as that
of some Aeschylean chorus, and no matter what the topic is, it is as though the present were
held at arms length. It is the reverse of rhetoric, for the speaker serves his own delight,
though doubtless he would tell you that like Raftery's whiskey- drinking it was but for the
company's sake. A medicinal manner of speech too, for it could not even express, so little
abstract it is and so rammed with life, those worn generalizations of national propaganda.
'I'll be telling you the finest story you'd hear any place from Dundalk to Ballinacree with
great queens in it, making themselves matches from the start to the end, and they with shiny
silks on them ... I've a grand story of the great queens of Ireland, with white necks on them
the like of Sarah Casey, and fine arms would hit you a slap.... What good am I this night,
God help me? What good are the grand stories I have when it's few would listen to an old woman,
few but a girl maybe would be in great fear the time her hour was come, or a little child wouldn't
be sleeping with the hunger on a cold night.' That has the flavour of Homer, of the Bible,
of Villon, while Cervantes would have thought it sweet in the mouth though not his food. This
use of Irish dialect for noble purpose by Synge, and by Lady Gregory, who had it already in
her Cuchulain of Muirthemne, and by Dr. Hyde in those first translations he has not equalled
since, has done much for National dignity. When I was a boy I was often troubled and sorrowful
because Scottish dialect was capable of noble use, but the Irish of obvious roystering humour
only; and this error fixed on my imagination by so many novelists and rhymers made me listen
badly. Synge wrote down words and phrases wherever he went, and with that knowledge of Irish
which made all our country idioms easy to his hand, found it so rich a thing, that he had begun
translating into it fragments of the great literatures of the world, and had planned a complete
version of the Imitation of Christ. It gave him imaginative richness and yet left to him the
sting and tang of reality. How vivid in his translation from Villon are those 'eyes with a
big gay look out of them would bring folly from a great scholar.' More vivid surely than anything
in Swinburne's version, and how noble those words which are yet simple country speech, in which
his Petrarch mourns that death came upon Laura just as time was making chastity easy, and the
day come when 'lovers may sit together and say out all things arc in their hearts,' and 'my
sweet enemy was making a start, little by little, to give over her great wariness, the way
she was wringing a sweet thing out of my sharp sorrow.'

XIV

Once when I had been saying that though it seemed to me that a conventional descriptive passage
encumbered the action at the moment of crisis. I liked 'The Shadow of the Glen' better than
'Riders to the Sea' that is, for all the nobility of its end, its mood of Greek tragedy, too
passive in suffering; and had quoted from Matthew Arnold's introduction to 'Empedocles on Etna,'
Synge answered, 'It is a curious thing that "The Riders to the Sea" succeeds with an English
but not with an Irish audience, and "The Shadow of the Glen" which is not liked by an English
audience is always liked in Ireland, though it is disliked there in theory.' Since then 'The
Riders to the Sea' has grown into great popularity in Dublin, partly because with the tactical
instinct of an Irish mob, the demonstrators against 'The Playboy' both in the press and in
the theatre, where it began the evening, selected it for applause. It is now what Shelley's
'Cloud' was for many years, a comfort to those who do not like to deny altogether the genius
they cannot understand. Yet I am certain that, in the long run, his grotesque plays with their
lyric beauty, their violent laughter, 'The Playboy of the Western World' most of all, will
be loved for holding so much of the mind of Ireland. Synge has written of 'The Playboy' 'anyone
who has lived in real intimacy with the Irish peasantry will know that the wildest sayings
in this play are tame indeed compared with the fancies one may hear at any little hillside
cottage of Geesala, or Carraroe, or Dingle Bay.' It is the strangest, the most beautiful expression
in drama of that Irish fantasy, which overflowing through all Irish Literature that has come
out of Ireland itself (compare the fantastic Irish account of the Battle of Clontarf with the
sober Norse account) is the unbroken character of Irish genius. In modern days this genius
has delighted in mischievous extravagance, like that of the Gaelic poet's curse upon his children,
'There are three things that I hate, the devil that is waiting for my soul, the worms that
are waiting for my body, my children, who are waiting for my wealth and care neither for my
body nor my soul: Oh, Christ hang all in the same noose!' I think those words were spoken with
a delight in their vehemence that took out of anger half the bitterness with all the gloom.
An old man on the Aran Islands told me the very tale on which 'The Playboy' is founded, beginning
with the words, 'If any gentleman has done a crime we'll hide him. There was a gentleman that
killed his father, & I had him in my own house six months till he got away to America.' Despite
the solemnity of his slow speech his eyes shone as the eyes must have shone in that Trinity
College branch of the Gaelic League, which began every meeting with prayers for the death of
an old Fellow of College who disliked their movement, or as they certainly do when patriots
are telling how short a time the prayers took to the killing of him. I have seen a crowd, when
certain Dublin papers had wrought themselves into an imaginary loyalty, so possessed by what
seemed the very genius of satiric fantasy, that one all but looked to find some feathered heel
among the cobble stones. Part of the delight of crowd or individual is always that somebody
will be angry, somebody take the sport for gloomy earnest. We are mocking at his solemnity,
let us therefore so hide our malice that he may be more solemn still, and the laugh run higher
yet. Why should we speak his language and so wake him from a dream of all those emotions which
men feel because they should, and not because they must? Our minds, being sufficient to themselves,
do not wish for victory but are content to elaborate our extravagance, if fortune aid, into
wit or lyric beauty, and as for the rest 'There are nights when a king like Conchobar would
spit upon his arm-ring and queens will stick out their tongues at the rising moon.' This habit
of the mind has made Oscar Wilde and Mr. Bernard Shaw the most celebrated makers of comedy
to our time, and if it has sounded plainer still in the conversation of the one, and in some
few speeches of the other, that is but because they have not been able to turn out of their
plays an alien trick of zeal picked up in struggling youth. Yet, in Synge's plays also, fantasy
gives the form and not the thought, for the core is always as in all great art, an over-powering
vision of certain virtues, and our capacity for sharing in that vision is the measure of our
delight. Great art chills us at first by its coldness or its strangeness, by what seems capricious,
and yet it is from these qualities it has authority, as though it had fed on locust and wild
honey. The imaginative writer shows us the world as a painter does his picture, reversed in
a looking-glass that we may see it, not as it seems to eyes habit has made dull, but as we
were Adam and this the first morning; and when the new image becomes as little strange as the
old we shall stay with him, because he has, beside the strangeness, not strange to him, that
made us share his vision, sincerity that makes us share his feeling.

To speak of one's emotions without fear or moral ambition, to come out from under the shadow
of other men's minds, to forget their needs, to be utterly oneself, that is all the Muses care
for. Villon, pander, thief, and man-slayer, is as immortal in their eyes, and illustrates in
the cry of his ruin as great a truth as Dante in abstract ecstasy, and touches our compassion
more. All art is the disengaging of a soul from place and history, its suspension in a beautiful
or terrible light, to await the Judgement, and yet, because all its days were a Last Day, judged
already. It may show the crimes of Italy as Dante did, or Greek mythology like Keats, or Kerry
and Galway villages, and so vividly that ever after I shall look at all with like eyes, and
yet I know that Cino da Pistoia thought Dante unjust, that Keats knew no Greek, that those
country men and women are neither so lovable nor so lawless as 'mine author sung it me;' that
I have added to my being, not my knowledge.

XV

I wrote the most of these thoughts in my diary on the coast of Normandy, and as I finished
came upon Mont Saint Michel, and thereupon doubted for a day the foundation of my school. Here
I saw the places of assembly, those cloisters on the rock's summit, the church, the great halls
where monks, or knights, or men at arms sat at meals, beautiful from ornament or proportion.
I remembered ordinances of the Popes forbidding drinking- cups with stems of gold to these
monks who had but a bare dormitory to sleep in. Even when imagining, the individual had taken
more from his fellows and his fathers than he gave; one man finishing what another had begun;
and all that majestic fantasy, seeming more of Egypt than of Christendom, spoke nothing to
the solitary soul, but seemed to announce whether past or yet to come an heroic temper of social
men, a bondage of adventure and of wisdom. Then I thought more patiently and I saw that what
had made these but as one and given them for a thousand years the miracles of their shrine
and temporal rule by land and sea, was not a condescension to knave or dolt, an impoverishment
of the common thought to make it serviceable and easy, but a dead language and a communion
in whatever, even to the greatest saint, is of incredible difficulty. Only by the substantiation
of the soul I thought, whether in literature or in sanctity, can we come upon those agreements,
those separations from all else that fasten men together lastingly; for while a popular and
picturesque Burns and Scott can but create a province, and our Irish cries and grammars serve
some passing need, Homer, Shakespeare, Dante, Goethe and all who travel in their road with
however poor a stride, define races and create everlasting loyalties. Synge, like all of the
great kin, sought for the race, not through the eyes or in history, or even in the future,
but where those monks found God, in the depths of the mind, and in all art like his, although
it does not command--indeed because it does not--may lie the roots of far-branching events.
Only that which does not teach, which does not cry out, which does not persuade, which does
not condescend, which does not explain is irresistible. It is made by men who expressed themselves
to the full, and it works through the best minds; whereas the external and picturesque and
declamatory writers, that they may create kilts and bagpipes and newspapers and guide-books,
leave the best minds empty, and in Ireland and Scotland England runs into the hole. It has
no array of arguments and maxims, because the great and the simple (and the Muses have never
known which of the two most pleases them) need their deliberate thought for the day's work,
and yet will do it worse if they have not grown into or found about them, most perhaps in the
minds of women, the nobleness of emotion, associated with the scenery and events of their country,
by those great poets, who have dreamed it in solitude, and who to this day in Europe are creating
indestructible spiritual races, like those religion has created in the East.

W. B. Yeats.

September 14th. 1910.

     *       *       *       *       *

WITH SYNGE IN CONNEMARA

I had often spent a day walking with John Synge, but a year or two ago I travelled for a month
alone through the west of Ireland with him. He was the best companion for a roadway any one
could have, always ready and always the same; a bold walker, up hill and down dale, in the
hot sun and the pelting rain. I remember a deluge on the Erris Peninsula, where we lay among
the sand hills and at his suggestion heaped sand upon ourselves to try and keep dry.

When we started on our journey, as the train steamed out of Dublin, Synge said: 'Now the elder
of us two should be in command on this trip.' So we compared notes and I found that he was
two months older than myself. So he was boss and whenever it was a question whether we should
take the road to the west or the road to the south, it was Synge who finally decided.

Synge was fond of little children and animals. I remember how glad he was to stop and lean
on a wall in Gorumna and watch a woman in afield shearing a sheep. It was an old sheep and
must have often been sheared before by the same hand, for the woman hardly held it; she just
knelt beside it and snipped away. I remember the sheep raised its lean old head to look at
the stranger, and the woman just put her hand on its cheek and gently pressed its head down
on the grass again.

Synge was delighted with the narrow paths made of sods of grass alongside the newly-metalled
roads, because he thought they had been put there to make soft going for the bare feet of little
children. Children knew, I think, that he wished them well. In Bellmullet on Saint John's eve,
when we stood in the market square watching the fire-play, flaming sods of turf soaked in paraffine,
hurled to the sky and caught and skied again, and burning snakes of hay-rope, I remember a
little girl in the crowd, in an ecstasy of pleasure and dread, clutched Synge by the hand and
stood close in his shadow until the fiery games were done.

His knowledge of Gaelic was a great assistance to him in talking to the people. I remember
him holding a great conversation in Irish and English with an innkeeper's wife in a Mayo inn.
She had lived in America in Lincoln's day. She told us what living cost in America then, and
of her life there; her little old husband sitting by and putting in an odd word. By the way,
the husband was a wonderful gentle-mannered man, for we had luncheon in his house of biscuits
and porter, and rested there an hour, waiting for a heavy shower to blow away; and when we
said good-bye and our feet were actually on the road, Synge said, 'Did we pay for what we had?'
So I called back to the innkeeper, 'Did we pay you?' and he said quietly, 'Not yet sir.'

