"Only till the New Year, which is bearing down upon us," said Strelitski, thrusting it into
his pocket. "Cost what it may, I shall no longer countenance the ritual and ceremonial of the
season of Repentance. Good-bye again. If you should be writing to Miss Ansell, I should like
her to know how much I owe her."

"But I tell you I don't know her address," said Raphael, his uneasiness reawakening.

"Surely you can write to her publishers?"

And the door closed upon the Russian dreamer, leaving the practical Englishman dumbfounded
at his never having thought of this simple expedient. But before he could adopt it the door
was thrown open again by Pinchas, who had got out of the habit of knocking through Raphael
being too polite to reprimand him. The poet, tottered in, dropped wearily into a chair, and
buried his face in his hands, letting an extinct cigar-stump slip through his fingers on to
the literature that carpeted the floor.

"What is the matter?" inquired Raphael in alarm.

"I am miserable--vairy miserable."

"Has anything happened?"

"Nothing. But I have been thinking vat have I come to after all these years, all these vanderings.
Nothing! Vat vill be my end? Oh. I am so unhappy."

"But you are better off than you ever were in your life. You no longer live amid the squalor
of the Ghetto; you are clean and well dressed: you yourself admit that you can afford to give
charity now. That looks as if you'd come to something--not nothing."

"Yes," said the poet, looking up eagerly, "and I am famous through the vorld. Metatoron's Flames
vill shine eternally." His head drooped again. "I have all I vant, and you are the best man
in the vorld. But I am the most miserable."

"Nonsense! cheer up," said Raphael.

"I can never cheer up any more. I vill shoot myself. I have realized the emptiness of life.
Fame, money, love--all is Dead Sea fruit."

His shoulders heaved convulsively; he was sobbing. Raphael stood by helpless, his respect for
Pinchas as a poet and for himself as a practical Englishman returning. He pondered over the
strange fate that had thrown him among three geniuses--a male idealist, a female pessimist,
and a poet who seemed to belong to both sexes and categories. And yet there was not one of
the three to whom he seemed able to be of real service. A letter brought in by the office-boy
rudely snapped the thread of reflection. It contained three enclosures. The first was an epistle;
the hand was the hand of Mr. Goldsmith, but the voice was the voice of his beautiful spouse.

     "DEAR MR. LEON:

     "I have perceived many symptoms lately of your growing divergency
     from the ideas with which The Flag of Judah was started. It is
     obvious that you find yourself unable to emphasize the olden
     features of our faith--the questions of kosher meat, etc.--as
     forcibly as our readers desire. You no doubt cherish ideals which
     are neither practical nor within the grasp of the masses to whom we
     appeal. I fully appreciate the delicacy that makes you
     reluctant--in the dearth of genius and Hebrew learning--to saddle
     me with the task of finding a substitute, but I feel it is time for
     me to restore your peace of mind even at the expense of my own. I
     have been thinking that, with your kind occasional supervision, it
     might be possible for Mr. Pinchas, of whom you have always spoken
     so highly, to undertake the duties of editorship, Mr. Sampson
     remaining sub-editor as before. Of course I count on you to
     continue your purely scholarly articles, and to impress upon the
     two gentlemen who will now have direct relations with me my wish to
     remain in the background.

     "Yours sincerely,

     "HENRY GOLDSMITH.

     "P.S.--On second thoughts I beg to enclose a cheque for four
     guineas, which will serve instead of a formal month's notice, and
     will enable you to accept at once my wife's invitation, likewise
     enclosed herewith. Your sister seconds Mrs. Goldsmith in the hope
     that you will do so. Our tenancy of the Manse only lasts a few
     weeks longer, for of course we return for the New Year holidays."

This was the last straw. It was not so much the dismissal that staggered him, but to be called
a genius and an idealist himself--to have his own orthodoxy impugned--just at this moment,
was a rough shock.

"Pinchas!" he said, recovering himself. Pinchas would not look up. His face was still hidden
in his hands. "Pinchas, listen! You are appointed editor of the paper, instead of me. You are
to edit the next number."

Pinchas's head shot up like a catapult. He bounded to his feet, then bent down again to Raphael's
coat-tail and kissed it passionately.

"Ah, my benefactor, my benefactor!" he cried, in a joyous frenzy. "Now vill I give it to English
Judaism. She is in my power. Oh, my benefactor!"

"No, no," said Raphael, disengaging himself. "I have nothing to do with it."

"But de paper--she is yours!" said the poet, forgetting his English in his excitement.

"No, I am only the editor. I have been dismissed, and you are appointed instead of me."

Pinchas dropped back into his chair like a lump of lead. He hung his head again and folded
his arms.

"Then they get not me for editor," he said moodily.

"Nonsense, why not?" said Raphael, flushing.

"Vat you think me?" Pinchas asked indignantly. "Do you think I have a stone for a heart like
Gideon M.P. or your English stockbrokers and Rabbis? No, you shall go on being editor. They
think you are not able enough, not orthodox enough--they vant me--but do not fear. I shall
not accept."

"But then what will become of the next number?" remonstrated Raphael, touched. "I must not
edit it."

"Vat you care? Let her die!" cried Pinchas, in gloomy complacency. "You have made her; vy should
she survive you? It is not right another should valk in your shoes--least of all, I."

"But I don't mind--I don't mind a bit," Raphael assured him. Pinchas shook his head obstinately.
"If the paper dies, Sampson will have nothing to live upon," Raphael reminded him.

"True, vairy true," said the poet, patently beginning to yield. "That alters things. Ve cannot
let Sampson starve."

"No, you see!" said Raphael. "So you must keep it alive."

"Yes, but," said Pinchas, getting up thoughtfully, "Sampson is going off soon on tour vith
his comic opera. He vill not need the Flag."

"Oh, well, edit it till then."

"Be it so," said the poet resignedly. "Till Sampson's comic-opera tour."

"Till Sampson's comic-opera tour," repeated Raphael contentedly.

CHAPTER XVI.

LOVE'S TEMPTATION.

Raphael walked out of the office, a free man. Mountains of responsibility seemed to roll off
his shoulders. His Messianic emotions were conscious of no laceration at the failure of this
episode of his life; they were merged in greater. What a fool he had been to waste so much
time, to make no effort to find the lonely girl! Surely, Esther must have expected him, if
only as a friend, to give some sign that he did not share in the popular execration. Perchance
she had already left London or the country, only to be found again by protracted knightly quest!
He felt grateful to Providence for setting him free for her salvation. He made at once for
the publishers' and asked for her address. The junior partner knew of no such person. In vain
Raphael reminded him that they had published Mordecai Josephs. That was by Mr. Edward Armitage.
Raphael accepted the convention, and demanded this gentleman's address instead. That, too,
was refused, but all letters would be forwarded. Was Mr. Armitage in England? All letters would
be forwarded. Upon that the junior partner stood, inexpugnable.

Raphael went out, not uncomforted. He would write to her at once. He got letter-paper at the
nearest restaurant and wrote, "Dear Miss Ansell." The rest was a blank. He had not the least
idea how to renew the relationship after what seemed an eternity of silence. He stared helplessly
round the mirrored walls, seeing mainly his own helpless stare. The placard "Smoking not permitted
till 8 P.M.," gave him a sudden shock. He felt for his pipe, and ultimately found it stuck,
half full of charred bird's eye, in his breast-pocket. He had apparently not been smoking for
some hours. That completed his perturbation. He felt he had undergone too much that day to
be in a fit state to write a judicious letter. He would go home and rest a bit, and write the
letter--very diplomatically--in the evening. When he got home, he found to his astonishment
it was Friday evening, when letter-writing is of the devil. Habit carried him to synagogue,
where he sang the Sabbath hymn, "Come, my beloved, to meet the bride," with strange sweet tears
and a complete indifference to its sacred allegorical signification. Next afternoon he haunted
the publishers' doorstep with the brilliant idea that Mr. Armitage sometimes crossed it. In
this hope, he did not write the letter; his phrases, he felt, would be better for the inspiration
of that gentleman's presence. Meanwhile he had ample time to mature them, to review the situation
in every possible light, to figure Esther under the most poetical images, to see his future
alternately radiant and sombre. Four long summer days of espionage only left him with a heartache,
and a specialist knowledge of the sort of persons who visit publishers. A temptation to bribe
the office-boy he resisted as unworthy.

Not only had he not written that letter, but Mr. Henry Goldsmith's edict and Mrs. Henry Goldsmith's
invitation were still unacknowledged. On Thursday morning a letter from Addie indirectly reminded
him both of his remissness to her hostess, and of the existence of The Flag of Judah. He remembered
it was the day of going to press; a vision of the difficulties of the day flashed vividly upon
his consciousness; he wondered if his ex-lieutenants were finding new ones. The smell of the
machine-room was in his nostrils; it co-operated with the appeal of his good-nature to draw
him to his successor's help. Virtue proved its own reward. Arriving at eleven o'clock, he found
little Sampson in great excitement, with the fountain of melody dried up on his lips.--

"Thank God!" he cried. "I thought you'd come when you heard the news."

"What news?"

"Gideon the member for Whitechapel's dead. Died suddenly, early this morning."

"How shocking!" said Raphael, growing white.

"Yes, isn't it?" said little Sampson. "If he had died yesterday, I shouldn't have minded it
so much, while to-morrow would have given us a clear week. He hasn't even been ill," he grumbled.
"I've had to send Pinchas to the Museum in a deuce of a hurry, to find out about his early
life. I'm awfully upset about it, and what makes it worse is a telegram from Goldsmith, ordering
a page obituary at least with black rules, besides a leader. It's simply sickening. The proofs
are awful enough as it is--my blessed editor has been writing four columns of his autobiography
in his most original English, and he wants to leave out all the news part to make room for
'em. In one way Gideon's death is a boon; even Pinchas'll see his stuff must be crowded out.
It's frightful having to edit your editor. Why wasn't he made sub?"

"That would have been just as trying for you," said Raphael with a melancholy smile. He took
up a galley-proof and began to correct it. To his surprise he came upon his own paragraph about
Strelitski's resignation: it caused him fresh emotion. This great spiritual crisis had quite
slipped his memory, so egoistic are the best of us at times. "Please be careful that Pinchas's
autobiography does not crowd that out," he said.

Pinchas arrived late, when little Sampson was almost in despair. "It is all right." he shouted,
waving a roll of manuscript. "I have him from the cradle--the stupid stockbroker, the Man-of-the-Earth,
who sent me back my poesie, and vould not let me teach his boy Judaism. And vhile I had the
inspiration I wrote the leader also in the Museum--it is here--oh, vairy beautiful! Listen
to the first sentence. 'The Angel of Death has passed again over Judaea; he has flown off vith
our visest and our best, but the black shadow of his ving vill long rest upon the House of
Israel.' And the end is vordy of the beginning. He is dead: but he lives for ever enshrined
in the noble tribute to his genius in Metatoron's Flames."

Little Sampson seized the "copy" and darted with it to the composing-room, where Raphael was
busy giving directions. By his joyful face Raphael saw the crisis was over. Little Sampson
handed the manuscript to the foreman, then drawing a deep breath of relief, he began to hum
a sprightly march.

"I say, you're a nice chap!" he grumbled, cutting himself short with a staccato that was not
in the music.

"What have I done?" asked Raphael.

"Done? You've got me into a nice mess. The guvnor--the new guvnor, the old guvnor, it seems--called
the other day to fix things with me and Pinchas. He asked me if I was satisfied to go on at
the same screw. I said he might make it two pound ten. 'What, more than double?' says he. 'No,
only nine shillings extra,' says I, 'and for that I'll throw in some foreign telegrams the
late editor never cared for.' And then it came out that he only knew of a sovereign, and fancied
I was trying it on."

"Oh, I'm so sorry," said Raphael, in deep scarlet distress.

"You must have been paying a guinea out of your own pocket!" said little Sampson sharply.

Raphael's confusion increased. "I--I--didn't want it myself," he faltered. "You see, it was
paid me just for form, and you really did the work. Which reminds me I have a cheque of yours
now," he ended boldly. "That'll make it right for the coming month, anyhow."

He hunted out Goldsmith's final cheque, and tendered it sheepishly.

"Oh no, I can't take it now," said little Sampson. He folded his arms, and drew his cloak around
him like a toga. No August sun ever divested little Sampson of his cloak.

"Has Goldsmith agreed to your terms, then?" inquired Raphael timidly.

"Oh no, not he. But--"

"Then I must go on paying the difference," said Raphael decisively. "I am responsible to you
that you get the salary you're used to; it's my fault that things are changed, and I must pay
the penalty," He crammed the cheque forcibly into the pocket of the toga.

"Well, if you put it in that way," said little Sampson, "I won't say I couldn't do with it.
But only as a loan, mind."

"All right," murmured Raphael.

"And you'll take it back when my comic opera goes on tour. You won't back out?"

"No."

"Give us your hand on it," said little Sampson huskily. Raphael gave him his hand, and little
Sampson swung it up and down like a baton.

"Hang it all! and that man calls himself a Jew!" he thought. Aloud he said: "When my comic
opera goes on tour."

They returned to the editorial den, where they found Pinchas raging, a telegram in his hand.

"Ah, the Man-of-the-Earth!" he cried. "All my beautiful peroration he spoils." He crumpled
up the telegram and threw it pettishly at little Sampson, then greeted Raphael with effusive
joy and hilarity. Little Sampson read the telegram. It ran as follows:

"Last sentence of Gideon leader. 'It is too early yet in this moment of grief to speculate
as to his successor in the constituency. But, difficult as it will be to replace him, we may
find some solace in the thought that it will not be impossible. The spirit of the illustrious
dead would itself rejoice to acknowledge the special qualifications of one whose name will
at once rise to every lip as that of a brother Jew whose sincere piety and genuine public spirit
mark him out as the one worthy substitute in the representation of a district embracing so
many of our poor Jewish brethren. Is it too much to hope that he will be induced to stand?'
Goldsmith."

"That's a cut above Henry," murmured little Sampson, who knew nearly everything, save the facts
he had to supply to the public. "He wired to the wife, and it's hers. Well, it saves him from
writing his own puffs, anyhow. I suppose Goldsmith's only the signature, not intended to be
the last word on the subject. Wants touching up, though; can't have 'spirit' twice within four
lines. How lucky for him Leon is just off the box seat! That queer beggar would never have
submitted to any dictation any more than the boss would have dared show his hand so openly."

While the sub-editor mused thus, a remark dropped from the editor's lips, which turned Raphael
whiter than the news of the death of Gideon had done.

"Yes, and in the middle of writing I look up and see the maiden--oh, vairy beautiful! How she
gives it to English Judaism sharp in that book--the stupid heads,--the Men-of-the-Earth! I
could kiss her for it, only I have never been introduced. Gideon, he is there! Ho! ho!" he
sniggered, with purely intellectual appreciation of the pungency.

"What maiden? What are you talking about?" asked Raphael, his breath coming painfully.

"Your maiden," said Pinchas, surveying him with affectionate roguishness. "The maiden that
came to see you here. She was reading; I walk by and see it is about America."

"At the British Museum?" gasped Raphael. A thousand hammers beat "Fool!" upon his brain. Why
had he not thought of so likely a place for a littérateur?

He rushed out of the office and into a hansom. He put his pipe out in anticipation. In seven
minutes he was at the gates, just in time--heaven be thanked!--to meet her abstractedly descending
the steps. His heart gave a great leap of joy. He studied the pensive little countenance for
an instant before it became aware of him; its sadness shot a pang of reproach through him.
Then a great light, as of wonder and joy, came into the dark eyes, and glorified the pale,
passionate face. But it was only a flash that faded, leaving the cheeks more pallid than before,
the lips quivering.

"Mr. Leon!" she muttered.

He raised his hat, then held out a trembling hand that closed upon hers with a grip that hurt her.

"I'm so glad to see you again!" he said, with unconcealed enthusiasm. "I have been meaning
to write to you for days--care of your publishers. I wonder if you will ever forgive me!"

"You had nothing to write to me," she said, striving to speak coldly.

"Oh yes, I had!" he protested.

She shook her head.

"Our journalistic relations are over--there were no others."

"Oh!" he said reproachfully, feeling his heart grow chill. "Surely we were friends?"

She did not answer.

"I wanted to write and tell you how much," he began desperately, then stammered, and ended--"how
much I liked Mordecai Josephs."

This time the reproachful "Oh!" came from her lips. "I thought better of you," she said. "You
didn't say that in The Flag of Judah; writing it privately to me wouldn't do me any good in
any case."

He felt miserable; from the crude standpoint of facts, there was no answer to give. He gave none.

"I suppose it is all about now?" she went on, seeing him silent.

"Pretty well," he answered, understanding the question. Then, with an indignant accent, he
said, "Mrs. Goldsmith tells everybody she found it out; and sent you away."

"I am glad she says that," she remarked enigmatically. "And, naturally, everybody detests me?"

"Not everybody," he began threateningly.

"Don't let us stand on the steps," she interrupted. "People will be looking at us." They moved
slowly downwards, and into the hot, bustling streets. "Why are you not at the Flag? I thought
this was your busy day." She did not add, "And so I ventured to the Museum, knowing there was
no chance of your turning up;" but such was the fact.

"I am not the editor any longer, he replied.

"Not?" She almost came to a stop. "So much for my critical faculty; I could have sworn to your
hand in every number."

"Your critical faculty equals your creative," he began.

"Journalism has taught you sarcasm."

"No, no! please do not be so unkind. I spoke in earnestness. I have only just been dismissed."

"Dismissed!" she echoed incredulously. "I thought the Flag was your own?"

He grew troubled. "I bought it--but for another. We--he--has dispensed with my services."

"Oh, how shameful!"

The latent sympathy of her indignation cheered him again.

"I am not sorry," he said. "I'm afraid I really was outgrowing its original platform."

"What?" she asked, with a note of mockery in her voice. "You have left off being orthodox?"

"I don't say that, it seems to me, rather, that I have come to understand I never was orthodox
in the sense that the orthodox understand the word. I had never come into contact with them
before. I never realized how unfair orthodox writers are to Judaism. But I do not abate one
word of what I have ever said or written, except, of course, on questions of scholarship, which
are always open to revision."

"But what is to become of me--of my conversion?" she said, with mock piteousness.

"You need no conversion!" he answered passionately, abandoning without a twinge all those criteria
of Judaism for which he had fought with Strelitski. "You are a Jewess not only in blood, but
in spirit. Deny it as you may, you have all the Jewish ideals,--they are implied in your attack
on our society."

She shook her head obstinately.

"You read all that into me, as you read your modern thought into the old naïve books."

"I read what is in you. Your soul is in the right, whatever your brain says." He went on, almost
to echo Strelitski's words, "Selfishness is the only real atheism; aspiration, unselfishness,
the only real religion. In the language of our Hillel, this is the text of the Law; the rest
is commentary. You and I are at one in believing that, despite all and after all, the world
turns on righteousness, on justice"--his voice became a whisper--"on love."

The old thrill went through her, as when first they met. Once again the universe seemed bathed
in holy joy. But she shook off the spell almost angrily. Her face was definitely set towards
the life of the New World. Why should he disturb her anew?

"Ah, well, I'm glad you allow me a little goodness," she said sarcastically. "It is quite evident
how you have drifted from orthodoxy. Strange result of The Flag of Judah! Started to convert
me, it has ended by alienating you--its editor--from the true faith. Oh, the irony of circumstance!
But don't look so glum. It has fulfilled its mission all the same; it has converted me--I will
confess it to you." Her face grew grave, her tones earnest "So I haven't an atom of sympathy
with your broader attitude. I am full of longing for the old impossible Judaism."

His face took on a look of anxious solicitude. He was uncertain whether she spoke ironically
or seriously. Only one thing was certain--that she was slipping from him again. She seemed
so complex, paradoxical, elusive--and yet growing every moment more dear and desirable.

"Where are you living?" he asked abruptly. "It doesn't matter where," she answered. "I sail
for America in three weeks."

The world seemed suddenly empty. It was hopeless, then--she was almost in his grasp, yet he
could not hold her. Some greater force was sweeping her into strange alien solitudes. A storm
of protest raged in his heart--all he had meant to say to her rose to his lips, but he only
said, "Must you go?"

"I must. My little sister marries. I have timed my visit so as to arrive just for the wedding--like
a fairy godmother." She smiled wistfully.

"Then you will live with your people, I suppose?"

"I suppose so. I dare say I shall become quite good again. Ah, your new Judaisms will never
appeal like the old, with all its imperfections. They will never keep the race together through
shine and shade as that did. They do but stave off the inevitable dissolution. Again the wistful
look lit up her eyes. "That's what you rich people will never understand--it doesn't seem to
go with dinners in seven courses, somehow."

"Oh, but I do understand," he protested. "It's what I told Strelitski, who is all for intellect
in religion. He is going to America, too," he said, with a sudden pang of jealous apprehension.

"On a holiday?"

"No; he is going to resign his ministry here."

"What! Has he got a better offer from America?"

"Still so cruel to him," he said reprovingly. "He is resigning for conscience' sake."

"After all these years?" she queried sarcastically.

"Miss Ansell, you wrong him! He was not happy in his position. You were right so far. But he
cannot endure his shackles any longer. And it is you who have inspired him to break them."

"I?" she exclaimed, startled.

"Yes, I told him why you had left Mrs. Henry Goldsmith's--it seemed to act like an electrical
stimulus. Then and there he made me write a paragraph announcing his resignation. It will appear
to-morrow."

Esther's eyes filled with soft light. She walked on in silence; then, noticing she had automatically
walked too much in the direction of her place of concealment, she came to an abrupt stop.

"We must part here," she said. "If I ever come across my old shepherd in America, I will be
nicer to him. It is really quite heroic of him--you must have exaggerated my own petty sacrifice
alarmingly if it really supplied him with inspiration. What is he going to do in America?"

"To preach a universal Judaism. He is a born idealist; his ideas have always such a magnificent
sweep. Years ago he wanted all the Jews to return to Palestine."

Esther smiled faintly, not at Strelitski, but at Raphael's calling another man an idealist.
She had never yet done justice to the strain of common-sense that saved him from being a great
man; he and the new Strelitski were of one breed to her.

"He will make Jews no happier and Christians no wiser," she said sceptically. "The great populations
will sweep on, as little affected by the Jews as this crowd by you and me. The world will not
go back on itself--rather will Christianity transform itself and take the credit. We are such
a handful of outsiders. Judaism--old or new--is a forlorn hope."

"The forlorn hope will yet save the world," he answered quietly, "but it has first to be saved
to the world."

"Be happy in your hope," she said gently. "Good-bye." She held out her little hand. He had
no option but to take it.

"But we are not going to part like this," he said desperately. "I shall see you again before
you go to America?"

"No, why should you?"

"Because I love you," rose to his lips. But the avowal seemed too plump. He prevaricated by
retorting, "Why should I not?"

"Because I fear you," was in her heart, but nothing rose to her lips. He looked into her eyes
to read an answer there, but she dropped them. He saw his opportunity.

"Why should I not?" he repeated.

"Your time is valuable," she said faintly.

"I could not spend it better than with you," he answered boldly.

"Please don't insist," she said in distress.

"But I shall; I am your friend. So far as I know, you are lonely. If you are bent upon going
away, why deny me the pleasure of the society I am about to lose for ever?"

"Oh, how can you call it a pleasure--such poor melancholy company as I am!"

"Such poor melancholy company that I came expressly to seek it, for some one told me you were
at the Museum. Such poor melancholy company that if I am robbed of it life will be a blank."

He had not let go her hand; his tones were low and passionate; the heedless traffic of the
sultry London street was all about them.

Esther trembled from head to foot; she could not look at him. There was no mistaking his meaning
now; her breast was a whirl of delicious pain.

But in proportion as the happiness at her beck and call dazzled her, so she recoiled from it.
Bent on self-effacement, attuned to the peace of despair, she almost resented the solicitation
to be happy; she had suffered so much that she had grown to think suffering her natural element,
out of which she could not breathe; she was almost in love with misery. And in so sad a world
was there not something ignoble about happiness, a selfish aloofness from the life of humanity?
And, illogically blent with this questioning, and strengthening her recoil, was an obstinate
conviction that there could never be happiness for her, a being of ignominious birth, without
roots in life, futile, shadowy, out of relation to the tangible solidities of ordinary existence.
To offer her a warm fireside seemed to be to tempt her to be false to something--she knew not
what. Perhaps it was because the warm fireside was in the circle she had quitted, and her heart
was yet bitter against it, finding no palliative even in the thought of a triumphant return.
She did not belong to it; she was not of Raphael's world. But she felt grateful to the point
of tears for his incomprehensible love for a plain, penniless, low-born girl. Surely, it was
only his chivalry. Other men had not found her attractive. Sidney had not; Levi only fancied
himself in love. And yet beneath all her humility was a sense of being loved for the best in
her, for the hidden qualities Raphael alone had the insight to divine. She could never think
so meanly of herself or of humanity again. He had helped and strengthened her for her lonely
future; the remembrance of him would always be an inspiration, and a reminder of the nobler
side of human nature.

All this contradictory medley of thought and feeling occupied but a few seconds of consciousness.
She answered him without any perceptible pause, lightly enough.

"Really, Mr. Leon, I don't expect you to say such things. Why should we be so conventional,
you and I? How can your life be a blank, with Judaism yet to be saved?"

"Who am I to save Judaism? I want to save you," he said passionately.

"What a descent! For heaven's sake, stick to your earlier ambition!"

"No, the two are one to me. Somehow you seem to stand for Judaism, too. I cannot disentwine
my hopes; I have come to conceive your life as an allegory of Judaism, the offspring of a great
and tragic past with the germs of a rich blossoming, yet wasting with an inward canker, I have
grown to think of its future as somehow bound up with yours. I want to see your eyes laughing,
the shadows lifted from your brow; I want to see you face life courageously, not in passionate
revolt nor in passionless despair, but in faith and hope and the joy that springs from them.
I want you to seek peace, not in a despairing surrender of the intellect to the faith of childhood,
but in that faith intellectually justified. And while I want to help you, and to fill your
life with the sunshine it needs, I want you to help me, to inspire me when I falter, to complete
my life, to make me happier than I had ever dreamed. Be my wife, Esther. Let me save you from
yourself."

"Let me save you from yourself, Raphael. Is it wise to wed with the gray spirit of the Ghetto
that doubts itself?"

And like a spirit she glided from his grasp and disappeared in the crowd.

CHAPTER XVII.

THE PRODIGAL SON.

The New Year dawned upon the Ghetto, heralded by a month of special matins and the long-sustained
note of the ram's horn. It was in the midst of the Ten Days of Repentance which find their
awful climax in the Day of Atonement that a strange letter for Hannah came to startle the breakfast-table
at Reb Shemuel's. Hannah read it with growing pallor and perturbation.

"What is the matter, my dear?" asked the Reb, anxiously.

"Oh, father," she cried, "read this! Bad news of Levi."

A spasm of pain contorted the old man's furrowed countenance.

"Mention not his name!" he said harshly "He is dead."

"He may be by now!" Hannah exclaimed agitatedly. "You were right, Esther. He did join a strolling
company, and now he is laid up with typhoid in the hospital in Stockbridge. One of his friends
writes to tell us. He must have caught it in one of those insanitary dressing-rooms we were
reading about."

Esther trembled all over. The scene in the garret when the fatal telegram came announcing Benjamin's
illness had never faded from her mind. She had an instant conviction that it was all over with
poor Levi.

"My poor lamb!" cried the Rebbitzin, the coffee-cup dropping from her nerveless hand.

"Simcha," said Reb Shemuel sternly, "calm thyself; we have no son to lose. The Holy One--blessed
be He!--hath taken him from us. The Lord giveth, and the Lord taketh. Blessed be the name of
the Lord."

Hannah rose. Her face was white and resolute. She moved towards the door.

"Whither goest thou?" inquired her father in German.

"I am going to my room, to put on my hat and jacket," replied Hannah quietly.

"Whither goest thou?" repeated Reb Shemuel.

"To Stockbridge. Mother, you and I must go at once."

The Reb sprang to his feet. His brow was dark; his eyes gleamed with anger and pain.

"Sit down and finish thy breakfast," he said.

"How can I eat? Levi is dying," said Hannah, in low, firm tones. "Will you come, mother, or
must I go alone?"

The Rebbitzin began to wring her hands and weep. Esther stole gently to Hannah's side and pressed
the poor girl's hand. "You and I will go," her clasp said.

"Hannah!" said Reb Shemuel. "What madness is this? Dost thou think thy mother will obey thee
rather than her husband?"

"Levi is dying. It is our duty to go to him." Hannah's gentle face was rigid. But there was
exaltation rather than defiance in the eyes.

"It is not the duty of women," said Reb Shemuel harshly. "I will go to Stockbridge. If he dies
(God have mercy upon his soul!) I will see that he is buried among his own people. Thou knowest
women go not to funerals." He reseated himself at the table, pushing aside his scarcely touched
meal, and began saying the grace. Dominated by his will and by old habit, the three trembling
women remained in reverential silence.

"The Lord will give strength to His people; the Lord will bless His people with Peace," concluded
the old man in unfaltering accents. He rose from the table and strode to the door, stern and
erect "Thou wilt remain here, Hannah, and thou, Simcha," he said. In the passage his shoulders
relaxed their stiffness, so that the long snow-white beard drooped upon his breast. The three
women looked at one another.

"Mother," said Hannah, passionately breaking the silence, "are you going to stay here while
Levi is dying in a strange town?"

"My husband wills it," said the Rebbitzin, sobbing. "Levi is a sinner in Israel. Thy father
will not see him; he will not go to him till he is dead."

"Oh yes, surely he will," said Esther. "But be comforted. Levi is young and strong. Let us
hope he will pull through."

"No, no!" moaned the Rebbitzin. "He will die, and my husband will but read the psalms at his
death-bed. He will not forgive him; he will not speak to him of his mother and sister."

"Let me go. I will give him your messages," said Esther.

"No, no," interrupted Hannah. "What are you to him? Why should you risk infection for our sakes?"

"Go, Hannah, but secretly," said the Rebbitzin in a wailing whisper. "Let not thy father see
thee till thou arrive; then he will not send thee back. Tell Levi that I--oh, my poor child,
my poor lamb!" Sobs overpowered her speech.

"No, mother," said Hannah quietly, "thou and I shall go. I will tell father we are accompanying
him."

She left the room, while the Rebbitzin fell weeping and terrified into a chair, and Esther
vainly endeavored to soothe her. The Reb was changing his coat when Hannah knocked at the door
and called "Father."

"Speak not to me, Hannah," answered the Reb, roughly. "It is useless." Then, as if repentant
of his tone, he threw open the door, and passed his great trembling hand lovingly over her
hair. "Thou art a good daughter," he said tenderly. "Forget that thou hast had a brother."

"But how can I forget?" she answered him in his own idiom. "Why should I forget? What hath
he done?"

He ceased to smooth her hair--his voice grew sad and stern.

"He hath profaned the Name. He hath lived like a heathen; he dieth like a heathen now. His
blasphemy was a by-word in the congregation. I alone knew it not till last Passover. He hath
brought down my gray hairs in sorrow to the grave."

"Yes, father, I know," said Hannah, more gently. "But he is not all to blame!"

"Thou meanest that I am not guiltless; that I should have kept him at my side?" said the Reb,
his voice faltering a little.

"No, father, not that! Levi could not always be a baby. He had to walk alone some day."

"Yes, and did I not teach him to walk alone?" asked the Reb eagerly. "My God, thou canst not
say I did not teach him Thy Law, day and night." He uplifted his eyes in anguished appeal.

"Yes, but he is not all to blame," she repeated. "Thy teaching did not reach his soul; he is
of another generation, the air is different, his life was cast amid conditions for which the
Law doth not allow."

"Hannah!" Reb Shemuel's accents became harsh and chiding again. "What sayest thou? The Law
of Moses is eternal; it will never be changed. Levi knew God's commandments, but he followed
the desire of his own heart and his own eyes. If God's Word were obeyed, he should have been
stoned with stones. But Heaven itself hath punished him; he will die, for it is ordained that
whosoever is stubborn and disobedient, that soul shall surely be cut off from among his people.
'Keep My commandments, that thy days may be long in the land,' God Himself hath said it. But
thou, my Hannah," he started caressing her hair again, "art a good Jewish maiden. Between Levi
and thee there is naught in common. His touch would profane thee. Sadden not thy innocent eyes
with the sight of his end. Think of him as one who died in boyhood. My God! why didst thou
not take him then?" He turned away, stifling a sob.

"Father," she put her hand on his shoulder, "we will go with thee to Stockbridge--I and the
mother."

He faced her again, stern and rigid.

"Cease thy entreaties. I will go alone."

"No, we will all go."

"Hannah," he said, his voice tremulous with pain and astonishment, "dost thou, too, set light
by thy father?"

"Yes," she cried, and there was no answering tremor in her voice. "Now thou knowest! I am not
a good Jewish maiden. Levi and I are brother and sister. His touch profane me, forsooth!" She
laughed bitterly.

"Thou wilt take this journey though I forbid thee?" he cried in acrid accents, still mingled
with surprise.

"Yes; would I had taken the journey thou wouldst have forbidden ten years ago!"

"What journey? thou talkest madness."

"I talk truth. Thou hast forgotten David Brandon; I have not. Ten years last Passover I arranged
to fly with him, to marry him, in defiance of the Law and thee."

A new pallor overspread the Reb's countenance, already ashen. He trembled and almost fell backwards.

"But thou didst not?" he whispered hoarsely.

