ESSAYS FOR YOUNG LADIES.

ESSAYS ON VARIOUS SUBJECTS, Principally designed for YOUNG LADIES.

     AS for you, I shall advise you in a few words: aspire only to
     those virtues that are PECULIAR TO YOUR SEX; follow your natural
     modesty, and think it your greatest commendation not to be talked
     of one way or the other.

     Oration of Pericles to the Athenian Women.

LONDON: Printed for J. WILKIE, in St. Paul's Church-Yard; and T. CADELL, in the Strand. MDCCLXXVII.

TO MRS. MONTAGU.

MADAM,

IF you were only one of the finest writers of your time, you would probably have escaped the
trouble of this address, which is drawn on you, less by the lustre of your understanding, than
by the amiable qualities of your heart.

AS the following pages are written with an humble but earnest wish, to promote the interests
of virtue, as far as the very limited abilities of the author allow; there is, I flatter myself,
a peculiar propriety in inscribing them to you, Madam, who, while your works convey instruction
and delight to the best-informed of the other sex, furnish, by your conduct, an admirable pattern
of life and manners to your own. And I can with truth remark, that those graces of conversation,
which would be the first praise of almost any other character, constitute but an inferior part
of yours.

        I am, MADAM,
  With the highest esteem,
    Your most obedient
      Humble Servant,

Bristol,         HANNAH MORE. May 20, 1777.

CONTENTS.

INTRODUCTION                   Page 1 ON DISSIPATION                     15 ON CONVERSATION
37 ON ENVY                            63 ON SENTIMENTAL CONNEXIONS          77 ON TRUE AND
FALSE MEEKNESS        107 ON EDUCATION                      123 ON RELIGION               
158 MISCELLANEOUS THOUGHTS ON WIT     178

INTRODUCTION.

IT is with the utmost diffidence that the following pages are submitted to the inspection of
the Public: yet, however the limited abilities of the author may have prevented her from succeeding
to her wish in the execution of her present attempt, she humbly trusts that the uprightness
of her intention will procure it a candid and favourable reception. The following little Essays
are chiefly calculated for the younger part of her own sex, who, she flatters herself, will
not esteem them the less, because they were written immediately for their service. She by no
means pretends to have composed a regular system of morals, or a finished plan of conduct:
she has only endeavoured to make a few remarks on such circumstances as seemed to her susceptible
of some improvement, and on such subjects as she imagined were particularly interesting to
young ladies, on their first introduction into the world. She hopes they will not be offended
if she has occasionally pointed out certain qualities, and suggested certain tempers, and dispositions,
as peculiarly feminine, and hazarded some observations which naturally arose from the subject,
on the different characters which mark the sexes. And here again she takes the liberty to repeat
that these distinctions cannot be too nicely maintained; for besides those important qualities
common to both, each sex has its respective, appropriated qualifications, which would cease
to be meritorious, the instant they ceased to be appropriated. Nature, propriety, and custom
have prescribed certain bounds to each; bounds which the prudent and the candid will never
attempt to break down; and indeed it would be highly impolitic to annihilate distinctions from
which each acquires excellence, and to attempt innovations, by which both would be losers.

WOMEN therefore never understand their own interests so little, as when they affect those qualities
and accomplishments, from the want of which they derive their highest merit. "The porcelain
clay of human kind," says an admired writer, speaking of the sex. Greater delicacy evidently
implies greater fragility; and this weakness, natural and moral, clearly points out the necessity
of a superior degree of caution, retirement, and reserve.

IF the author may be allowed to keep up the allusion of the poet, just quoted, she would ask
if we do not put the finest vases, and the costliest images in places of the greatest security,
and most remote from any probability of accident, or destruction? By being so situated, they
find their protection in their weakness, and their safety in their delicacy. This metaphor
is far from being used with a design of placing young ladies in a trivial, unimportant light;
it is only introduced to insinuate, that where there is more beauty, and more weakness, there
should be greater circumspection, and superior prudence.

MEN, on the contrary, are formed for the more public exhibitions on the great theatre of human
life. Like the stronger and more substantial wares, they derive no injury, and lose no polish
by being always exposed, and engaged in the constant commerce of the world. It is their proper
element, where they respire their natural air, and exert their noblest powers, in situations
which call them into action. They were intended by Providence for the bustling scenes of life;
to appear terrible in arms, useful in commerce, shining in counsels.

THE Author fears it will be hazarding a very bold remark, in the opinion of many ladies, when
she adds, that the female mind, in general, does not appear capable of attaining so high a
degree of perfection in science as the male. Yet she hopes to be forgiven when she observes
also, that as it does not seem to derive the chief portion of its excellence from extraordinary
abilities of this kind, it is not at all lessened by the imputation of not possessing them.
It is readily allowed, that the sex have lively imaginations, and those exquisite perceptions
of the beautiful and defective, which come under the denomination of Taste. But pretensions
to that strength of intellect, which is requisite to penetrate into the abstruser walks of
literature, it is presumed they will readily relinquish. There are green pastures, and pleasant
vallies, where they may wander with safety to themselves, and delight to others. They may cultivate
the roses of imagination, and the valuable fruits of morals and criticism; but the steeps of
Parnassus few, comparatively, have attempted to scale with success. And when it is considered,
that many languages, and many sciences, must contribute to the perfection of poetical composition,
it will appear less strange. The lofty Epic, the pointed Satire, and the more daring and successful
flights of the Tragic Muse, seem reserved for the bold adventurers of the other sex.

NOR does this assertion, it is apprehended, at all injure the interests of the women; they
have other pretensions, on which to value themselves, and other qualities much better calculated
to answer their particular purposes. We are enamoured of the soft strains of the Sicilian and
the Mantuan Muse, while, to the sweet notes of the pastoral reed, they sing the Contentions
of the Shepherds, the Blessings of Love, or the innocent Delights of rural Life. Has it ever
been ascribed to them as a defect, that their Eclogues do not treat of active scenes, of busy
cities, and of wasting war? No: their simplicity is their perfection, and they are only blamed
when they have too little of it.

ON the other hand, the lofty bards who strung their bolder harps to higher measures, and sung
the Wrath of Peleus' Son, and Man's first Disobedience, have never been censured for want of
sweetness and refinement. The sublime, the nervous, and the masculine, characterise their compositions;
as the beautiful, the soft, and the delicate, mark those of the others. Grandeur, dignity,
and force, distinguish the one species; ease, simplicity, and purity, the other. Both shine
from their native, distinct, unborrowed merits, not from those which are foreign, adventitious,
and unnatural. Yet those excellencies, which make up the essential and constituent parts of
poetry, they have in common.

WOMEN have generally quicker perceptions; men have juster sentiments.--Women consider how things
may be prettily said; men how they may be properly said.--In women, (young ones at least) speaking
accompanies, and sometimes precedes reflection; in men, reflection is the antecedent.--Women
speak to shine or to please; men, to convince or confute.--Women admire what is brilliant;
men what is solid.--Women prefer an extemporaneous sally of wit, or a sparkling effusion of
fancy, before the most accurate reasoning, or the most laborious investigation of facts. In
literary composition, women are pleased with point, turn, and antithesis; men with observation,
and a just deduction of effects from their causes.--Women are fond of incident, men of argument.--Women
admire passionately, men approve cautiously.--One sex will think it betrays a want of feeling
to be moderate in their applause, the other will be afraid of exposing a want of judgment by
being in raptures with any thing.--Men refuse to give way to the emotions they actually feel,
while women sometimes affect to be transported beyond what the occasion will justify.

AS a farther confirmation of what has been advanced on the different bent of the understanding
in the sexes, it may be observed, that we have heard of many female wits, but never of one
female logician--of many admirable writers of memoirs, but never of one chronologer.--In the
boundless and aërial regions of romance, and in that fashionable species of composition which
succeeded it, and which carries a nearer approximation to the manners of the world, the women
cannot be excelled: this imaginary soil they have a peculiar talent for cultivating, because here,

    Invention labours more, and judgment less.

THE merit of this kind of writing consists in the vraisemblance to real life as to the events
themselves, with a certain elevation in the narrative, which places them, if not above what
is natural, yet above what is common. It farther consists in the art of interesting the tender
feelings by a pathetic representation of those minute, endearing, domestic circumstances, which
take captive the soul before it has time to shield itself with the armour of reflection. To
amuse, rather than to instruct, or to instruct indirectly by short inferences, drawn from a
long concatenation of circumstances, is at once the business of this sort of composition, and
one of the characteristics of female genius[1].

IN short, it appears that the mind in each sex has some natural kind of bias, which constitutes
a distinction of character, and that the happiness of both depends, in a great measure, on
the preservation and observance of this distinction. For where would be the superior pleasure
and satisfaction resulting from mixed conversation, if this difference were abolished? If the
qualities of both were invariably and exactly the same, no benefit or entertainment would arise
from the tedious and insipid uniformity of such an intercourse; whereas considerable advantages
are reaped from a select society of both sexes. The rough angles and asperities of male manners
are imperceptibly filed, and gradually worn smooth, by the polishing of female conversation,
and the refining of female taste; while the ideas of women acquire strength and solidity, by
their associating with sensible, intelligent, and judicious men.

ON the whole, (even if fame be the object of pursuit) is it not better to succeed as women,
than to fail as men? To shine, by walking honourably in the road which nature, custom, and
education seem to have marked out, rather than to counteract them all, by moving awkwardly
in a path diametrically opposite? To be good originals, rather than bad imitators? In a word,
to be excellent women, rather than indifferent men?

[1] THE author does not apprehend it makes against her GENERAL position, that this nation can
boast a female critic, poet, historian, linguist, philosopher, and moralist, equal to most
of the other sex. To these particular instances others might be adduced; but it is presumed,
that they only stand as exceptions against the rule, without tending to invalidate the rule itself.

ON DISSIPATION.

    DOGLIE CERTE, ALLEGREZZE INCERTE!
    PETRARCA.

AS an argument in favour of modern manners, it has been pleaded, that the softer vices of Luxury
and Dissipation, belong rather to gentle and yielding tempers, than to such as are rugged and
ferocious: that they are vices which increase civilization, and tend to promote refinement,
and the cultivation of humanity.

BUT this is an assertion, the truth of which the experience of all ages contradicts. Nero was
not less a tyrant for being a fiddler: He[2] who wished the whole Roman people had but one
neck, that he might dispatch them at a blow, was himself the most debauched man in Rome; and
Sydney and Russel were condemned to bleed under the most barbarous, though most dissipated
and voluptuous, reign that ever disgraced the annals of Britain.

THE love of dissipation is, I believe, allowed to be the reigning evil of the present day.
It is an evil which many content themselves with regretting, without seeking to redress. A
dissipated life is censured in the very act of dissipation, and prodigality of time is as gravely
declaimed against at the card table, as in the pulpit.

THE lover of dancing censures the amusements of the theatre for their dulness, and the gamester
blames them both for their levity. She, whose whole soul is swallowed up in "opera extacies"
is astonished, that her acquaintance can spend whole nights in preying, like harpies, on the
fortunes of their fellow-creatures; while the grave sober sinner, who passes her pale and anxious
vigils, in this fashionable sort of pillaging, is no less surprised how the other can waste
her precious time in hearing sounds for which she has no taste, in a language she does not
understand.

IN short, every one seems convinced, that the evil so much complained of does really exist
somewhere, though all are inwardly persuaded that it is not with themselves. All desire a general
reformation, but few will listen to proposals of particular amendment; the body must be restored,
but each limb begs to remain as it is; and accusations which concern all, will be likely to
affect none. They think that sin, like matter, is divisible, and that what is scattered among
so many, cannot materially affect any one; and thus individuals contribute separately to that
evil which they in general lament.

THE prevailing manners of an age depend more than we are aware, or are willing to allow, on
the conduct of the women; this is one of the principal hinges on which the great machine of
human society turns. Those who allow the influence which female graces have, in contributing
to polish the manners of men, would do well to reflect how great an influence female morals
must also have on their conduct. How much then is it to be regretted, that the British ladies
should ever sit down contented to polish, when they are able to reform, to entertain, when
they might instruct, and to dazzle for an hour, when they are candidates for eternity!

UNDER the dispensation of Mahomet's law, indeed, these mental excellencies cannot be expected,
because the women are shut out from all opportunities of instruction, and excluded from the
endearing pleasures of a delightful and equal society; and, as a charming poet sings, are taught
to believe, that

                For their inferior natures
    Form'd to delight, and happy by delighting,
    Heav'n has reserv'd no future paradise,
    But bids them rove the paths of bliss, secure
    Of total death, and careless of hereafter.

    IRENE.

THESE act consistently in studying none but exterior graces, in cultivating only personal attractions,
and in trying to lighten the intolerable burden of time, by the most frivolous and vain amusements.
They act in consequence of their own blind belief, and the tyranny of their despotic masters;
for they have neither the freedom of a present choice, nor the prospect of a future being.

BUT in this land of civil and religious liberty, where there is as little despotism exercised
over the minds, as over the persons of women, they have every liberty of choice, and every
opportunity of improvement; and how greatly does this increase their obligation to be exemplary
in their general conduct, attentive to the government of their families, and instrumental to
the good order of society!

SHE who is at a loss to find amusements at home, can no longer apologize for her dissipation
abroad, by saying she is deprived of the benefit and the pleasure of books; and she who regrets
being doomed to a state of dark and gloomy ignorance, by the injustice, or tyranny of the men,
complains of an evil which does not exist.

IT is a question frequently in the mouths of illiterate and dissipated females--"What good
is there in reading? To what end does it conduce?" It is, however, too obvious to need insisting
on, that unless perverted, as the best things may be, reading answers many excellent purposes
beside the great leading one, and is perhaps the safest remedy for dissipation. She who dedicates
a portion of her leisure to useful reading, feels her mind in a constant progressive state
of improvement, whilst the mind of a dissipated woman is continually losing ground. An active
spirit rejoiceth, like the sun, to run his daily course, while indolence, like the dial of
Ahaz, goes backwards. The advantages which the understanding receives from polite literature,
it is not here necessary to enumerate; its effects on the moral temper is the present object
of consideration. The remark may perhaps be thought too strong, but I believe it is true, that
next to religious influences, an habit of study is the most probable preservative of the virtue
of young persons. Those who cultivate letters have rarely a strong passion for promiscuous
visiting, or dissipated society; study therefore induces a relish for domestic life, the most
desirable temper in the world for women. Study, as it rescues the mind from an inordinate fondness
for gaming, dress, and public amusements, is an oeconomical propensity; for a lady may read
at much less expence than she can play at cards; as it requires some application, it gives
the mind an habit of industry; as it is a relief against that mental disease, which the French
emphatically call ennui, it cannot fail of being beneficial to the temper and spirits, I mean
in the moderate degree in which ladies are supposed to use it; as an enemy to indolence, it
becomes a social virtue; as it demands the full exertion of our talents, it grows a rational
duty; and when directed to the knowledge of the Supreme Being, and his laws, it rises into
an act of religion.

THE rage for reformation commonly shews itself in a violent zeal for suppressing what is wrong,
rather than in a prudent attention to establish what is right; but we shall never obtain a
fair garden merely by rooting up weeds, we must also plant flowers; for the natural richness
of the soil we have been clearing will not suffer it to lie barren, but whether it shall be
vainly or beneficially prolific, depends on the culture. What the present age has gained on
one side, by a more enlarged and liberal way of thinking, seems to be lost on the other, by
excessive freedom and unbounded indulgence. Knowledge is not, as heretofore, confined to the
dull cloyster, or the gloomy college, but disseminated, to a certain degree, among both sexes
and almost all ranks. The only misfortune is, that these opportunities do not seem to be so
wisely improved, or turned to so good an account as might be wished. Books of a pernicious,
idle, and frivolous sort, are too much multiplied, and it is from the very redundancy of them
that true knowledge is so scarce, and the habit of dissipation so much increased.

IT has been remarked, that the prevailing character of the present age is not that of gross
immorality: but if this is meant of those in the higher walks of life, it is easy to discern,
that there can be but little merit in abstaining from crimes which there is but little temptation
to commit. It is however to be feared, that a gradual defection from piety, will in time draw
after it all the bad consequences of more active vice; for whether mounds and fences are suddenly
destroyed by a sweeping torrent, or worn away through gradual neglect, the effect is equally
destructive. As a rapid fever and a consuming hectic are alike fatal to our natural health,
so are flagrant immorality and torpid indolence to our moral well-being.

THE philosophical doctrine of the slow recession of bodies from the sun, is a lively image
of the reluctance with which we first abandon the light of virtue. The beginning of folly,
and the first entrance on a dissipated life cost some pangs to a well-disposed heart; but it
is surprising to see how soon the progress ceases to be impeded by reflection, or slackened
by remorse. For it is in moral as in natural things, the motion in minds as well as bodies
is accelerated by a nearer approach to the centre to which they are tending. If we recede slowly
at first setting out, we advance rapidly in our future course; and to have begun to be wrong,
is already to have made a great progress.

A CONSTANT habit of amusement relaxes the tone of the mind, and renders it totally incapable
of application, study, or virtue. Dissipation not only indisposes its votaries to every thing
useful and excellent, but disqualifies them for the enjoyment of pleasure itself. It softens
the soul so much, that the most superficial employment becomes a labour, and the slightest
inconvenience an agony. The luxurious Sybarite must have lost all sense of real enjoyment,
and all relish for true gratification, before he complained that he could not sleep, because
the rose leaves lay double under him.

LUXURY and dissipation, soft and gentle as their approaches are, and silently as they throw
their silken chains about the heart, enslave it more than the most active and turbulent vices.
The mightiest conquerors have been conquered by these unarmed foes: the flowery setters are
fastened, before they are felt. The blandishments of Circe were more fatal to the mariners
of Ulysses, than the strength of Polypheme, or the brutality of the Læstrigons. Introduxo Babuca was
astonished with the generals, and insinuated in its familiarity. At last one of them said to him: The
cause of the war that has been plaguing Asia twenty years, comes originally from a contest
of a eunuch in one of the wives of the great king of Persia, with a clerk of the great king of Indies.
We tried a right that produced with a slight variation of daric triesimo and as both the prime minister
of India as the nuestio sustained with dignity the rights of their respective love, ignited minds, and
went out to every part of a campaign million soldiers. Every year it is
necessary to recruit these armies with four hundred thousand men.

Grow deaths, fires, ruins and logging, have the universe, and follows the enemy. Our minister and the
Indian protest frequeencia much they do not move anything but the happiness of the human lineage,
and with every protest a city is destroyed, or plaguing some provinces. Having another day to spread
the word that was to be entered peace, gave the Indian and Persian
general haste to the battle, which was bloody.

Babuca saw all the mistakes and all the abominations that were committed, and witnessed the machinations
of the leading princes, who made quanto was in his hand to be losing its general officers was
killed by his own troops, he saw soldiers who had just to kill their comrades dying by taking away some
bloody rags, ripped and covered in filth, I enter the hospitals where the wounded had, they
almost all perished by the inhuman neglect of the same weight of gold paid to the king of Persia
so that rescuers. ? These are men, exclaimed Babuca, or are they beasts? Ha, I see that must be
destroyed Persepolis. Concerned with this idea way to the Indian camp, where,
according to what he had predicted, he was received with much kindness
as in that of the Persians, and which witnessed the same excesses
that had filled him with horror.

Ha, ha, he said to himself, if you want the angel Ituriel exterminate
the Persians, also have to exterminate the Indians, the angel of the
Indies .

After having been informed of whatever is more finely in both armies had happened, learned
actions magnanimous, generous and humane, which astonished and enthralled
him. Unexplained death, exclaimed,? As you can gather so heavily
so high, and many virtues and so many crimes?

Declarose peace soon, and the leaders of both armies, which had made his interest only to shed
the blood of so many like his, went to seek reward for their respective court, since none had
won the victory. Peace was celebrated in public letters announcing the kingdom of virtue and
happiness on earth. Praised be God, said Babuca, Persepolis will be the abode of the purest
innocence, and will not be destroyed, as they wanted those damn genius:
without further delay we see this capital of Asia.

I come to this great city by the old entrance even sunk in barbarism and disgust for his rough inspired
sloppiness. He felt this portion of the people all the time that had built up, we confess, is qual
whatever the effort to exalt the ancient to the modern coast, that in all things the first tests
are always rough. Then he put a crowd Babuca the crowd was composed of how much more pork and
more ugly in both sexes may be found, the which he entered in haste a dark
and gloomy room. The steady hum, the movement felt, and the money that
some people threw a saucer, let him know I was in a public market,
but when he saw that many women knelt on his knees, apparently looking
at what they had in front , and indeed men of hand, he perceived that
he was in a temple.

A rough voices, Subalpine, out of tune and bad bargain they made in the vault resound articulated
sounds, like the voice of the animals in the cerdudos plains of La Mancha respond to curved
and sharp instrument that calls them. Tapabase ears, but then had to cover his eyes and nose,
when he saw entering the temple a clumsy with shovels and hoes.

They raised such a large stone, threw a right hand and left hand land that gave off an intolerable
stench, then put the dead into the hole they had made, and returned to lay the stone. iCon to bury
these people, exclaimed Babuca, their dead in places where they worship the same god! icon
that are paved with corpses their temples! I no longer dread of pestilential diseases that afflict so
frequeencia Persepolis, is capable of poisoning across the globe terraqueeo rot so many dead and
many live pressed together in one place.

IHA, which is Persepolis dirty people! No doubt the angels want to destroy, to build another city
more beautiful, and populated by people more neat, and what better chant: Providence knows
what you do, do not we get into take his idea.

And the sun was approaching the mid-career, and had Babuca to go to eat at the other end of
town, home of a lady to whom he had given a letter of recommendation from her husband who was an officer
in the army. He traveled thousands and thousands of streets of Persepolis, he saw other more
well decorated temples, where more educated people attended, and where they heard a harmonica music;
objection to public sources, although they made wonderful effect defective, was fresh and pleasant
streets of trees, gardens where they breathed the most delicious smells, and gathered plants Vian of
the most remote villages. marveled at the sight of magnificent bridges, as they were intended
to pass a stream without getting your feet wet wading is the four-fifths of the year; step wide
streets and magnificent, filled with palaces on either sidewalk,
and finally entered the house of the lady with a society of decent
people waiting for him to eat. His house was clean and well decorated,
the lady was young, beautiful, discreet and courteous and friendly
society and each Babuca said: No doubt he had lost the trial Ituriel
angel, when I wanted to destroy a city so fulfilled.

But very brief warned that the lady, who at first had asked lovingly new her husband, the end of
the meal more lovingly spoke to a young magician. Then he saw a judge before his own wife to
a thousand compliments to a widow, the which with one hand clasped the neck of the magistrate, and gave
the other to a very nice and modest guy. The first to rise up the table was the wife of the magistrate,
who is locked in a cabinet immediately to confer with his spiritual director,
eloqueentisimo man, with such energy that had to reason with her,
who returned embarrassed face, wet the eyes, his voice tremulous
and faltering steps.

Babuca then began a longer fear that the genie was right Ituriel. With
the dowry that Granger had confidence, knew that very day the lady's
secrets, the which he fio befriending his fellow magician, assuring
that all houses of Persepolis would find the same thing in his had
seen.

Babuca inferred that such a society could not last, that all houses
had to be struck by jealousy, revenge and strife in which we constantly
had to shed tears and blood that inevitably had to kill their husbands
to the processions of their wives, or be killed for them to finally
Ituriel well to destroy once an abandoned village to horrific disorders.

He went after dinner to one of the most magnificent temples of the city, and sat in the middle of
a crowd of men, women who had gone there to kill time. Climbed a magician at a high machine and
pondered long about vice and virtue, and having divided into several parts so it was not necessary
to divide, test methods things clearer, taught what he knew everyone, be exalted without reason,
and left sweating and out of breath. awoke, then people, and believed that he had attended an instruction.
Babuca said: "This good man has been able to spite quanto two or three
hundred fellow citizens, but his intention was good, and this is no reason
to destroy Persepolis.

They took him, to leave this assembly, I saw a public holiday to be held every day of the year
in a kind of basilica, whose interior is via a palace. They were so beautiful spectacle most
beautiful women citizens of Persepolis, and the main Satraps arranged
in order, at first believed Babuca this was reduced to the party.

They left soon be seen in the vestibule of the palace two or three people that looked like
kings and queens, his language was very different from the fashionable to the masses, and had rhythm,
harmony and sublimity. No one is sleeping, we all listened in deep silence, and if interrupted
him, was to give evidence of general admiration and affection, and with such terms senses alive and
well talked about the obligations of the kings, love of virtue, and
risks of the passions, which brought tears to Babuca: who do not doubt
that the preachers of the empire were those heroes and heroines and
kings and queens who had just heard, and even made Ituriel purpose
of persuading that come to listen, some of which show similar you
forever reconciled to Persepolis.

After the party, wanted to visit the queen at the main palace had announced so beautiful and unblemished moral
sublime. He introduxeran it at his majesty, and took him for a bad ladder to the second floor,
where poorly'm in a room adorned a badly dressed woman, that noble and pathetic gesture said to
him: My job does not give me to live and one of princes, who have seen has made me a child:
I am to give birth, I have no money and no money every birth is a
miscarriage.

Babuca darics gave him a hundred gold, saying: If there were no worse in the city , Ituriel had little
reason to be so angry. It was from there to spend the afternoon at the shops of merchants of magnificence
superfluous.

He brought a smart sugeto who had befriended him, I buy what I find to their liking, and with many
bows sold it much more expensive than it was worth. Quando had returned home, I did see his friend
that he had been cheated; and pointed Babuca memory in his book the name of the merchant,
so that the day of the punishment of the city lie down Ituriel not forgotten. While writing,
the doorbell rang, and entered the merchant who brought him to Babuca his pocket that had forsaken
over the counter forgot. ? As possible, said Babuca, that ye may be so generous and scrupulous, after
having had face to sell your buxerias four more so than they are worth? There is no citywide, he
said the merchant, either something known businessman, who had not come to bring the pocket, but when you
have been told that I have sold in my store that have bought the quadruple in value, we have deceived,
because you've sold ten times more than what it is worth, and this is so true that within a
month if you want you get rid of it, will not give or tithe: and there is however something more
conformable to reason because being the whim of men that gives value to these trifles, that
same craving feeds a hundred workers who use me, and my house gives
me a good start, a good car and good horses.

This craving is who industry revives and keeps the fine taste, circulation and abundance. A neighboring
nations sell them much more expensive than the same trifling to you,
and thus serve to benefit the empire.

Paros Babuca thoughtful one, while, and then delete it from his book. Not knowing what to think
of Persepolis, was determined to visit the magicians and writers, flattered that such a waiver would
reach all the rest of the people, because some are apply to the
wisdom, and religion of others. The next morning he visited a school
for wizards, and he confessed that he was Archimandrite three hundred
thousand crowns for having taken a vow of poverty, and exercies a
vast jurisdiction under another vote of humility.

That said, I leave to Babuca in the hands of a boy wizard, so gave her. taught him that the beauties
of this house of penance, when the word spread that Traian commission
for reform.

Gave memorials to the point of each, all essentially came to say Conservadnos us and remove all
others. If you believe his own apologies, all these congregations were necessary, if attended to their
reciprocal accusations, all deserved be destroyed.

Babuca Pasmabase that there is none that by building the universe, did not want to be the
arbiter. Presentosele then a man who was semi-magician, he said to him: The great work will
be fulfilled, and Zerdust has returned to the earth: therefore I pray that we ampareis against
the Grand Lama. ? Against the pontiff with that monarch replied Babuca, who lives in Tibet? - Against
the same .--? Then what? War are you doing it, and alistais against an army? - not that, but
says that man is free, and we do not believe: we write against not reading big books, and
hardly heard of us, since we just condemn, as an owner who commands remove the caterpillars from
her garden. Babuca was amazed of the madness of men who profess the wisdom of the entanglements of
those who had renounced the world, lofty ambition and greed of those who preached humility
and disinterestedness, and gathered that had more than enough valid reasons to Ituriel to destroy
all this race. retired to his house, ordered new books get him to calm his anger, and he invited
several writers to eat for pleasure. They reached more than double
the figure which had, as the wasps come to honey. They did not ford these
gorreros to speak and swallow, and praised two classes of men, the
dead and their own, but never to their peers, except for the householder.

If one said such a sharp, baxaban others eyes and bit his tongue feeling of not including the authors.
They were less cautious than mages because his ambition aspired to such lofty goals, calling each
a servant's job and reputation of a great man. They began on their face insults, that they
contained sharp epigrams.

He had been a little translucent Babuca's commission, and one of them in shoal voice beg you
to exterminate an author who had not given him enough praise, another asked what the loss of
a citizen who in his plays never laughed, and another extinction of the academy, because I've
never been able to get to be your guy. After the meal, they went away
all, because there was all this crowd who might suffer two or more
spoken in the homes of the rich which in table the guests.

    Babuca believed that very little was lost with all these Landre to
perish in the general destruction.

Just got away from them, began to read some books that had just been released, and warned them the character
of his guests. Indignaronle most of all the newsletters of slander, and files in poor taste
dictated by envy, hunger and stupidity; vile vulture satires that
respect and tear pigeons; novels lack of imagination, where they are
a thousand portraits sugetos ideals the author is not known.

Tyre fire all these nasty letters, and went home that afternoon to go for walks. Presentaronle
an old writer who had not been to increase the number of blobs. Dodging the crowd, he knew the men, use
them wisely and sensibly explained. Babuca spoke to him with great feeling of quanto had seen and
read. Despicable things have read, he said the wise counsel, but at all times and in every country is
very common evil, and rare good. You have given shelter at your table
to the stool of pedantry, because in any profession that is always presented with
more brazen is the least deserves to go out into the plaza. They live with each
other, peaceful and in retirement, the truly wise, and yet we are not
short books and authors who are entitled to your attention. While
he was talking, I get another writer, and his arguments were so instructive
and enjoyable, so superior to the concerns, and so in accordance
with virtue, which Babuca confessed he had never heard such a thing.



IN a sensible company of both sexes, where women are not restrained by any other reserve than
what their natural modesty imposes; and where the intimacy of all parties authorises the utmost
freedom of communication; should any one inquire what were the general sentiments on some particular
subject, it will, I believe, commonly happen, that the ladies, whose imaginations have kept
pace with the narration, have anticipated its end, and are ready to deliver their sentiments
on it as soon as it is finished. While some of the male hearers, whose minds were busied in
settling the propriety, comparing the circumstances, and examining the consistencies of what
was said, are obliged to pause and discriminate, before they think of answering. Nothing is
so embarrassing as a variety of matter, and the conversation of women is often more perspicuous,
because it is less laboured.

A MAN of deep reflection, if he does not keep up an intimate commerce with the world, will
be sometimes so entangled in the intricacies of intense thought, that he will have the appearance
of a confused and perplexed expression; while a sprightly woman will extricate herself with
that lively and "rash dexterity," which will almost always please, though it is very far from
being always right. It is easier to confound than to convince an opponent; the former may be
effected by a turn that has more happiness than truth in it. Many an excellent reasoner, well
skilled in the theory of the schools, has felt himself discomfited by a reply, which, though
as wide of the mark, and as foreign to the question as can be conceived, has disconcerted him
more than the most startling proposition, or the most accurate chain of reasoning could have
done; and he has borne the laugh of his fair antagonist, as well as of the whole company, though
he could not but feel, that his own argument was attended with the fullest demonstration: so
true is it, that it is not always necessary to be right, in order to be applauded.

BUT let not a young lady's vanity be too much elated with this false applause, which is given,
not to her merit, but to her sex: she has not perhaps gained a victory, though she may be allowed
a triumph; and it should humble her to reflect, that the tribute is paid, not to her strength
but her weakness. It is worth while to discriminate between that applause, which is given from
the complaisance of others, and that which is paid to our own merit.

WHERE great sprightliness is the natural bent of the temper, girls should endeavour to habituate
themselves to a custom of observing, thinking, and reasoning. I do not mean, that they should
devote themselves to abstruse speculation, or the study of logic; but she who is accustomed
to give a due arrangement to her thoughts, to reason justly and pertinently on common affairs,
and judiciously to deduce effects from their causes, will be a better logician than some of
those who claim the name, because they have studied the art: this is being "learned without
the rules;" the best definition, perhaps, of that sort of literature which is properest for
the sex. That species of knowledge, which appears to be the result of reflection rather than
of science, sits peculiarly well on women. It is not uncommon to find a lady, who, though she
does not know a rule of Syntax, scarcely ever violates one; and who constructs every sentence
she utters, with more propriety than many a learned dunce, who has every rule of Aristotle
by heart, and who can lace his own thread-bare discourse with the golden shreds of Cicero and
Virgil.

IT has been objected, and I fear with some reason, that female conversation is too frequently
tinctured with a censorious spirit, and that ladies are seldom apt to discover much tenderness
for the errors of a fallen sister.

    If it be so, it is a grievous fault.

NO arguments can justify, no pleas can extenuate it. To insult over the miseries of an unhappy
creature is inhuman, not to compassionate them is unchristian. The worthy part of the sex always
express themselves humanely on the failings of others, in proportion to their own undeviating
goodness.

AND here I cannot help remarking, that young women do not always carefully distinguish between
running into the error of detraction, and its opposite extreme of indiscriminate applause.
This proceeds from the false idea they entertain, that the direct contrary to what is wrong
must be right. Thus the dread of being only suspected of one fault makes them actually guilty
of another. The desire of avoiding the imputation of envy, impels them to be insincere; and
to establish a reputation for sweetness of temper and generosity, they affect sometimes to
speak of very indifferent characters with the most extravagant applause. With such, the hyperbole
is a favourite figure; and every degree of comparison but the superlative is rejected, as cold
and inexpressive. But this habit of exaggeration greatly weakens their credit, and destroys
the weight of their opinion on other occasions; for people very soon discover what degree of
faith is to be given both to their judgment and veracity. And those of real merit will no more
be flattered by that approbation, which cannot distinguish the value of what it praises, than
the celebrated painter must have been at the judgment passed on his works by an ignorant spectator,
who, being asked what he thought of such and such very capital but very different pieces, cried
out in an affected rapture, "All alike! all alike!"

IT has been proposed to the young, as a maxim of supreme wisdom, to manage so dexterously in
conversation, as to appear to be well acquainted with subjects, of which they are totally ignorant;
and this, by affecting silence in regard to those, on which they are known to excel.--But why
counsel this disingenuous fraud? Why add to the numberless arts of deceit, this practice of
deceiving, as it were, on a settled principle? If to disavow the knowledge they really have
be a culpable affectation, then certainly to insinuate an idea of their skill, where they are
actually ignorant, is a most unworthy artifice.

BUT of all the qualifications for conversation, humility, if not the most brilliant, is the
safest, the most amiable, and the most feminine. The affectation of introducing subjects, with
which others are unacquainted, and of displaying talents superior to the rest of the company,
is as dangerous as it is foolish.

There are many, who never can forgive another for being more agreeable and more accomplished
than themselves, and who can pardon any offence rather than an eclipsing merit. Had the nightingale
in the fable conquered his vanity, and resisted the temptation of shewing a fine voice, he
might have escaped the talons of the hawk. The melody of his singing was the cause of his destruction;
his merit brought him into danger, and his vanity cost him his life.

[5] Lord Bacon.

ON ENVY.

    Envy came next, Envy with squinting eyes,
    Sick of a strange disease, his neighbour's health;
    Best then he lives when any better dies,
    Is never poor but in another's wealth:
      On best mens harms and griefs he feeds his fill,
      Else his own maw doth eat with spiteful will,
    Ill must the temper be, where diet is so ill.

    FLETCHER'S PURPLE ISLAND.

"ENVY, (says Lord Bacon) has no holidays." There cannot perhaps be a more lively and striking
description of the miserable state of mind those endure, who are tormented with this vice.
A spirit of emulation has been supposed to be the source of the greatest improvements; and
there is no doubt but the warmest rivalship will produce the most excellent effects; but it
is to be feared, that a perpetual state of contest will injure the temper so essentially, that
the mischief will hardly be counterbalanced by any other advantages. Those, whose progress
is the most rapid, will be apt to despise their less successful competitors, who, in return,
will feel the bitterest resentment against their more fortunate rivals. Among persons of real
goodness, this jealousy and contempt can never be equally felt, because every advancement in
piety will be attended with a proportionable increase of humility, which will lead them to
contemplate their own improvements with modesty, and to view with charity the miscarriages
of others.

WHEN an envious man is melancholy, one may ask him, in the words of Bion, what evil has befallen
himself, or what good has happened to another? This last is the scale by which he principally
measures his felicity, and the very smiles of his friends are so many deductions from his own
happiness. The wants of others are the standard by which he rates his own wealth, and he estimates
his riches, not so much by his own possessions, as by the necessities of his neighbours.

WHEN the malevolent intend to strike a very deep and dangerous stroke of malice, they generally
begin the most remotely in the world from the subject nearest their hearts. They set out with
commending the object of their envy for some trifling quality or advantage, which it is scarcely
worth while to possess: they next proceed to make a general profession of their own good-will
and regard for him: thus artfully removing any suspicion of their design, and clearing all
obstructions for the insidious stab they are about to give; for who will suspect them of an
intention to injure the object of their peculiar and professed esteem? The hearer's belief
of the fact grows in proportion to the seeming reluctance with which it is told, and to the
conviction he has, that the relater is not influenced by any private pique, or personal resentment;
but that the confession is extorted from him sorely against his inclination, and purely on
account of his zeal for truth.

ANGER is less reasonable and more sincere than envy.--Anger breaks out abruptly; envy is a
great prefacer--anger wishes to be understood at once: envy is fond of remote hints and ambiguities;
but, obscure as its oracles are, it never ceases to deliver them till they are perfectly comprehended:--anger
repeats the same circumstances over again; envy invents new ones at every fresh recital--anger
gives a broken, vehement, and interrupted narrative; envy tells a more consistent and more
probable, though a falser tale--anger is excessively imprudent, for it is impatient to disclose
every thing it knows; envy is discreet, for it has a great deal to hide--anger never consults
times or seasons; envy waits for the lucky moment, when the wound it meditates may be made
the most exquisitely painful, and the most incurably deep--anger uses more invective; envy
does more mischief--simple anger soon runs itself out of breath, and is exhausted at the end
of its tale; but it is for that chosen period that envy has treasured up the most barbed arrow
in its whole quiver--anger puts a man out of himself: but the truly malicious generally preserve
the appearance of self-possession, or they could not so effectually injure.--The angry man
sets out by destroying his whole credit with you at once, for he very frankly confesses his
abhorrence and detestation of the object of his abuse; while the envious man carefully suppresses
all his own share in the affair.--The angry man defeats the end of his resentment, by keeping
himself continually before your eyes, instead of his enemy; while the envious man artfully
brings forward the object of his malice, and keeps himself out of sight.--The angry man talks
loudly of his own wrongs; the envious of his adversary's injustice.--A passionate person, if
his resentments are not complicated with malice, divides his time between sinning and sorrowing;
and, as the irascible passions cannot constantly be at work, his heart may sometimes get a
holiday.--Anger is a violent act, envy a constant habit--no one can be always angry, but he
may be always envious:--an angry man's enmity (if he be generous) will subside when the object
of his resentment becomes unfortunate; but the envious man can extract food from his malice
out of calamity itself, if he finds his adversary bears it with dignity, or is pitied or assisted
in it. The rage of the passionate man is totally extinguished by the death of his enemy; but
the hatred of the malicious is not buried even in the grave of his rival: he will envy the
good name he has left behind him; he will envy him the tears of his widow, the prosperity of
his children, the esteem of his friends, the praises of his epitaph--nay the very magnificence
of his funeral.

"THE ear of jealousy heareth all things," (says the wise man) frequently I believe more than
is uttered, which makes the company of persons infected with it still more dangerous.

WHEN you tell those of a malicious turn, any circumstance that has happened to another, though
they perfectly know of whom you are speaking, they often affect to be at a loss, to forget
his name, or to misapprehend you in some respect or other; and this merely to have an opportunity
of slily gratifying their malice by mentioning some unhappy defect or personal infirmity he
labours under; and not contented "to tack his every error to his name," they will, by way of
farther explanation, have recourse to the faults of his father, or the misfortunes of his family;
and this with all the seeming simplicity and candor in the world, merely for the sake of preventing
mistakes, and to clear up every doubt of his identity.--If you are speaking of a lady, for
instance, they will perhaps embellish their inquiries, by asking if you mean her, whose great
grandfather was a bankrupt, though she has the vanity to keep a chariot, while others who are
much better born walk on foot; or they will afterwards recollect, that you may possibly mean
her cousin, of the same name, whose mother was suspected of such or such an indiscretion, though
the daughter had the luck to make her fortune by marrying, while her betters are overlooked.

TO hint at a fault, does more mischief than speaking out; for whatever is left for the imagination
to finish, will not fail to be overdone: every hiatus will be more then filled up, and every
pause more than supplied. There is less malice, and less mischief too, in telling a man's name
than the initials of it; as a worthier person may be involved in the most disgraceful suspicions
by such a dangerous ambiguity.

IT is not uncommon for the envious, after having attempted to deface the fairest character
so industriously, that they are afraid you will begin to detect their malice, to endeavour
to remove your suspicions effectually, by assuring you, that what they have just related is
only the popular opinion; they themselves can never believe things are so bad as they are said
to be; for their part, it is a rule with them always to hope the best. It is their way never
to believe or report ill of any one. They will, however, mention the story in all companies,
that they may do their friend the service of protesting their disbelief of it. More reputations
are thus hinted away by false friends, than are openly destroyed by public enemies. An if,
or a but, or a mortified look, or a languid defence, or an ambiguous shake of the head, or
a hasty word affectedly recalled, will demolish a character more effectually, than the whole
artillery of malice when openly levelled against it.

IT is not that envy never praises--No, that would be making a public profession of itself,
and advertising its own malignity; whereas the greatest success of its efforts depends on the
concealment of their end. When envy intends to strike a stroke of Machiavelian policy, it sometimes
affects the language of the most exaggerated applause; though it generally takes care, that
the subject of its panegyric shall be a very indifferent and common character, so that it is
well aware none of its praises will stick.

IT is the unhappy nature of envy not to be contented with positive misery, but to be continually
aggravating its own torments, by comparing them with the felicities of others. The eyes of
envy are perpetually fixed on the object which disturbs it, nor can it avert them from it,
though to procure itself the relief of a temporary forgetfulness. On seeing the innocence of
the first pair,

                      Aside the devil turn'd,
    For Envy, yet with jealous leer malign,
    Eyed them askance.

As this enormous sin chiefly instigated the revolt, and brought on the ruin of the angelic
spirits, so it is not improbable, that it will be a principal instrument of misery in a future
world, for the envious to compare their desperate condition with the happiness of the children
of God; and to heighten their actual wretchedness by reflecting on what they have lost.

PERHAPS envy, like lying and ingratitude, is practised with more frequency, because it is practised
with impunity; but there being no human laws against these crimes, is so far from an inducement
to commit them, that this very consideration would be sufficient to deter the wise and good,
if all others were ineffectual; for of how heinous a nature must those sins be, which are judged
above the reach of human punishment, and are reserved for the final justice of God himself!

ON THE DANGER OF SENTIMENTAL OR ROMANTIC CONNEXIONS.

AMONG the many evils which prevail under the sun, the abuse of words is not the least considerable.
By the influence of time, and the perversion of fashion, the plainest and most unequivocal
may be so altered, as to have a meaning assigned them almost diametrically opposite to their
original signification.

THE present age may be termed, by way of distinction, the age of sentiment, a word which, in
the implication it now bears, was unknown to our plain ancestors. Sentiment is the varnish
of virtue to conceal the deformity of vice; and it is not uncommon for the same persons to
make a jest of religion, to break through the most solemn ties and engagements, to practise
every art of latent fraud and open seduction, and yet to value themselves on speaking and writing
sentimentally.

BUT this refined jargon, which has infested letters and tainted morals, is chiefly admired
and adopted by young ladies of a certain turn, who read sentimental books, write sentimental
letters, and contract sentimental friendships.

ERROR is never likely to do so much mischief as when it disguises its real tendency, and puts
on an engaging and attractive appearance. Many a young woman, who would be shocked at the imputation
of an intrigue, is extremely flattered at the idea of a sentimental connexion, though perhaps
with a dangerous and designing man, who, by putting on this mask of plausibility and virtue,
disarms her of her prudence, lays her apprehensions asleep, and involves her in misery; misery
the more inevitable because unsuspected. For she who apprehends no danger, will not think it
necessary to be always upon her guard; but will rather invite than avoid the ruin which comes
under so specious and so fair a form.

SUCH an engagement will be infinitely dearer to her vanity than an avowed and authorised attachment;
for one of these sentimental lovers will not scruple very seriously to assure a credulous girl,
that her unparalleled merit entitles her to the adoration of the whole world, and that the
universal homage of mankind is nothing more than the unavoidable tribute extorted by her charms.
No wonder then she should be easily prevailed on to believe, that an individual is captivated
by perfections which might enslave a million. But she should remember, that he who endeavours
to intoxicate her with adulation, intends one day most effectually to humble her. For an artful
man has always a secret design to pay himself in future for every present sacrifice. And this
prodigality of praise, which he now appears to lavish with such thoughtless profusion, is,
in fact, a sum oeconomically laid out to supply his future necessities: of this sum he keeps
an exact estimate, and at some distant day promises himself the most exorbitant interest for
it. If he has address and conduct, and, the object of his pursuit much vanity, and some sensibility,
he seldom fails of success; for so powerful will be his ascendancy over her mind, that she
will soon adopt his notions and opinions. Indeed, it is more than probable she possessed most
of them before, having gradually acquired them in her initiation into the sentimental character.
To maintain that character with dignity and propriety, it is necessary she should entertain
the most elevated ideas of disproportionate alliances, and disinterested love; and consider
fortune, rank, and reputation, as mere chimerical distinctions and vulgar prejudices.

THE lover, deeply versed in all the obliquities of fraud, and skilled to wind himself into
every avenue of the heart which indiscretion has left unguarded, soon discovers on which side
it is most accessible. He avails himself of this weakness by addressing her in a language exactly
consonant to her own ideas. He attacks her with her own weapons, and opposes rhapsody to sentiment--He
professes so sovereign a contempt for the paltry concerns of money, that she thinks it her
duty to reward him for so generous a renunciation. Every plea he artfully advances of his own
unworthiness, is considered by her as a fresh demand which her gratitude must answer. And she
makes it a point of honour to sacrifice to him that fortune which he is too noble to regard.
These professions of humility are the common artifice of the vain, and these protestations
of generosity the refuge of the rapacious. And among its many smooth mischiefs, it is one of
the sure and successful frauds of sentiment, to affect the most frigid indifference to those
external and pecuniary advantages, which it is its great and real object to obtain.

A SENTIMENTAL girl very rarely entertains any doubt of her personal beauty; for she has been
daily accustomed to contemplate it herself, and to hear of it from others. She will not, therefore,
be very solicitous for the confirmation of a truth so self-evident; but she suspects, that
her pretensions to understanding are more likely to be disputed, and, for that reason, greedily
devours every compliment offered to those perfections, which are less obvious and more refined.
She is persuaded, that men need only open their eyes to decide on her beauty, while it will
be the most convincing proof of the taste, sense, and elegance of her admirer, that he can
discern and flatter those qualities in her. A man of the character here supposed, will easily
insinuate himself into her affections, by means of this latent but leading foible, which may
be called the guiding clue to a sentimental heart. He will affect to overlook that beauty which
attracts common eyes, and ensnares common hearts, while he will bestow the most delicate praises
on the beauties of her mind, and finish the climax of adulation, by hinting that she is superior
to it.

    And when he tells her she hates flattery,
    She says she does, being then most flatter'd.

BUT nothing, in general, can end less delightfully than these sublime attachments, even where
no acts of seduction were ever practised, but they are suffered, like mere sublunary connexions,
to terminate in the vulgar catastrophe of marriage. That wealth, which lately seemed to be
looked on with ineffable contempt by the lover, now appears to be the principal attraction
in the eyes of the husband; and he, who but a few short weeks before, in a transport of sentimental
generosity, wished her to have been a village maid, with no portion but her crook and her beauty,
and that they might spend their days in pastoral love and innocence, has now lost all relish
for the Arcadian life, or any other life in which she must be his companion.

ON the other hand, she who was lately

    An angel call'd, and angel-like ador'd,

is shocked to find herself at once stripped of all her celestial attributes. This late divinity,
who scarcely yielded to her sisters of the sky, now finds herself of less importance in the
esteem of the man she has chosen, than any other mere mortal woman. No longer is she gratified
with the tear of counterfeited passion, the sigh of dissembled rapture, or the language of
premeditated adoration. No longer is the altar of her vanity loaded with the oblations of fictitious
fondness, the incense of falsehood, or the sacrifice of flattery.--Her apotheosis is ended!--She
feels herself degraded from the dignities and privileges of a goddess, to all the imperfections,
vanities, and weaknesses of a slighted woman, and a neglected wife. Her faults, which were
so lately overlooked, or mistaken for virtues, are now, as Cassius says, set in a note-book.
The passion, which was vowed eternal, lasted only a few short weeks; and the indifference,
which was so far from being included in the bargain, that it was not so much as suspected,
follows them through the whole tiresome journey of their insipid, vacant, joyless existence.

THUS much for the completion of the sentimental history. If we trace it back to its beginning,
we shall find that a damsel of this cast had her head originally turned by pernicious reading,
and her insanity confirmed by imprudent friendships. She never fails to select a beloved confidante
of her own turn and humour, though, if she can help it, not quite so handsome as herself. A
violent intimacy ensues, or, to speak the language of sentiment, an intimate union of souls
immediately takes place, which is wrought to the highest pitch by a secret and voluminous correspondence,
though they live in the same street, or perhaps in the same house. This is the fuel which principally
feeds and supplies the dangerous flame of sentiment. In this correspondence the two friends
encourage each other in the falsest notions imaginable. They represent romantic love as the
great important business of human life, and describe all the other concerns of it as too low
and paltry to merit the attention of such elevated beings, and fit only to employ the daughters
of the plodding vulgar. In these letters, family affairs are misrepresented, family secrets
divulged, and family misfortunes aggravated. They are filled with vows of eternal amity, and
protestations of never-ending love. But interjections and quotations are the principal embellishments
of these very sublime epistles. Every panegyric contained in them is extravagant and hyperbolical,
and every censure exaggerated and excessive. In a favourite, every frailty is heightened into
a perfection, and in a foe degraded into a crime. The dramatic poets, especially the most tender
and romantic, are quoted in almost every line, and every pompous or pathetic thought is forced
to give up its natural and obvious meaning, and with all the violence of misapplication, is
compelled to suit some circumstance of imaginary woe of the fair transcriber. Alicia is not
too mad for her heroics, nor Monimia too mild for her soft emotions.

FATHERS have flinty hearts is an expression worth an empire, and is always used with peculiar
emphasis and enthusiasm. For a favourite topic of these epistles is the groveling spirit and
sordid temper of the parents, who will be sure to find no quarter at the hands of their daughters,
should they presume to be so unreasonable as to direct their course of reading, interfere in
their choice of friends, or interrupt their very important correspondence. But as these young
ladies are fertile in expedients, and as their genius is never more agreeably exercised than
in finding resources, they are not without their secret exultation, in case either of the above
interesting events should happen, as they carry with them a certain air of tyranny and persecution
which is very delightful. For a prohibited correspondence is one of the great incidents of
a sentimental life, and a letter clandestinely received, the supreme felicity of a sentimental
lady.

NOTHING can equal the astonishment of these soaring spirits, when their plain friends or prudent
relations presume to remonstrate with them on any impropriety in their conduct. But if these
worthy people happen to be somewhat advanced in life, their contempt is then a little softened
by pity, at the reflection that such very antiquated poor creatures should pretend to judge
what is fit or unfit for ladies of their great refinement, sense, and reading. They consider
them as wretches utterly ignorant of the sublime pleasures of a delicate and exalted passion;
as tyrants whose authority is to be contemned, and as spies whose vigilance is to be eluded.
The prudence of these worthy friends they term suspicion, and their experience dotage. For
they are persuaded, that the face of things has so totally changed since their parents were
young, that though they might then judge tolerably for themselves, yet they are now (with all
their advantages of knowledge and observation) by no means qualified to direct their more enlightened
daughters; who, if they have made a great progress in the sentimental walk, will no more be
influenced by the advice of their mother, than they would go abroad in her laced pinner or
her brocade suit.

BUT young people never shew their folly and ignorance more conspicuously, than by this over-confidence
in their own judgment, and this haughty disdain of the opinion of those who have known more
days. Youth has a quickness of apprehension, which it is very apt to mistake for an acuteness
of penetration. But youth, like cunning, though very conceited, is very short-sighted, and
never more so than when it disregards the instructions of the wife, and the admonitions of
the aged. The same vices and follies influenced the human heart in their day, which influence
it now, and nearly in the same manner. One who well knew the world and its various vanities,
has said, "The thing which hath been, it is that which shall be, and that which is done is
that which shall be done, and there is no new thing under the sun."

IT is also a part of the sentimental character, to imagine that none but the young and the
beautiful have any right to the pleasures of society, of even to the common benefits and blessings
of life. Ladies of this turn also affect the most lofty disregard for useful qualities and
domestic virtues; and this is a natural consequence: for as this sort of sentiment is only
a weed of idleness, she who is constantly and usefully employed, has neither leisure nor propensity
to cultivate it.

A SENTIMENTAL lady principally values herself on the enlargement of her notions, and her liberal
way of thinking. This superiority of soul chiefly manifests itself in the contempt of those
minute delicacies and little decorums, which, trifling as they may be thought, tend at once
to dignify the character, and to restrain the levity of the younger part of the sex.

PERHAPS the error here complained of, originates in mistaking sentiment and principle for each
other. Now I conceive them to be extremely different. Sentiment is the virtue of ideas, and
principle the virtue of action. Sentiment has its seat in the head, principle in the heart.
Sentiment suggests fine harangues and subtile distinctions; principle conceives just notions,
and performs good actions in consequence of them. Sentiment refines away the simplicity of
truth and the plainness of piety; and, as a celebrated wit[6] has remarked of his no less celebrated
contemporary, gives us virtue in words and vice in deeds. Sentiment may be called the Athenian,
who knew what was right, and principle the Lacedemonian who practised it.

BUT these qualities will be better exemplified by an attentive consideration of two admirably
drawn characters of Milton, which are beautifully, delicately, and distinctly marked. These
are, Belial, who may not improperly be called the Demon of Sentiment; and Abdiel, who may be
termed the Angel of Principle.

SURVEY the picture of Belial, drawn by the sublimest hand that ever held the poetic pencil.

    PARADISE LOST, B. II.

HERE is a lively and exquisite representation of art, subtilty, wit, fine breeding and polished
manners: on the whole, of a very accomplished and sentimental spirit.

NOW turn to the artless, upright, and unsophisticated Abdiel,

                           Faithful found
    Among the faithless, faithful only he
    Among innumerable false, unmov'd,
    Unshaken, unseduc'd, unterrified;
    His loyalty he kept, his love, his zeal.

    BOOK V.

BUT it is not from these descriptions, just and striking as they are, that their characters
are so perfectly known, as from an examination of their conduct through the remainder of this
divine work: in which it is well worth while to remark the consonancy of their actions, with
what the above pictures seem to promise. It will also be observed, that the contrast between
them is kept up throughout, with the utmost exactness of delineation, and the most animated
strength of colouring. On a review it will be found, that Belial talked all, and Abdiel did
all. The former,

      With words still cloath'd in reason's guise,
    Counsel'd ignoble ease, and peaceful sloth,
    Not peace.

    BOOK II.

IN Abdiel you will constantly find the eloquence of action. When tempted by the rebellious
angels, with what retorted scorn, with what honest indignation he deserts their multitudes,
and retreats from their contagious society!

    All night the dreadless angel unpursued
    Through heaven's wide champain held his way.

    BOOK VI.

NO wonder he was received with such acclamations of joy by the celestial powers, when there was

                                But one,
    Yes, of so many myriads fall'n, but one
    Return'd not lost.

    IBID.

AND afterwards, in a close contest with the arch fiend,

        A noble stroke he lifted high
    On the proud crest of Satan.

    IBID.

WHAT was the effect of this courage of the vigilant and active seraph?

                      Amazement seiz'd
    The rebel throne, but greater rage to see
    Thus foil'd their mightiest.

ABDIEL had the superiority of Belial as much in the warlike combat, as in the peaceful counsels.

             Nor was it ought but just,
    That he who in debate of truth had won,
    Shou'd win in arms, in both disputes alike
    Victor.

BUT notwithstanding I have spoken with some asperity against sentiment as opposed to principle,
yet I am convinced, that true genuine sentiment, (not the sort I have been describing) may
be so connected with principle, as to bestow on it its brightest lustre, and its most captivating
graces. And enthusiasm is so far from being disagreeable, that a portion of it is perhaps indispensably
necessary in an engaging woman. But it must be the enthusiasm of the heart, not of the senses.
It must be the enthusiasm which grows up with a feeling mind, and is cherished by a virtuous
education; not that which is compounded of irregular passions, and artificially refined by
books of unnatural fiction and improbable adventure. I will even go so far as to assert, that
a young woman cannot have any real greatness of soul, or true elevation of principle, if she
has not a tincture of what the vulgar would call Romance, but which persons of a certain way
of thinking will discern to proceed from those fine feelings, and that charming sensibility,
without which, though a woman may be worthy, yet she can never be amiable.

BUT this dangerous merit cannot be too rigidly watched, as it is very apt to lead those who
possess it into inconveniencies from which less interesting characters are happily exempt.
Young women of strong sensibility may be carried by the very amiableness of this temper into
the most alarming extremes. Their tastes are passions. They love and hate with all their hearts,
and scarcely suffer themselves to feel a reasonable preference before it strengthens into a
violent attachment.

WHEN an innocent girl of this open, trusting, tender heart, happens to meet with one of her
own sex and age, whose address and manners are engaging, she is instantly seized with an ardent
desire to commence a friendship with her. She feels the most lively impatience at the restraints
of company, and the decorums of ceremony. She longs to be alone with her, longs to assure her
of the warmth of her tenderness, and generously ascribes to the fair stranger all the good
qualities she feels in her own heart, or rather all those which she has met with in her reading,
dispersed in a variety of heroines. She is persuaded, that her new friend unites them all in
herself, because she carries in her prepossessing countenance the promise of them all. How
cruel and how censorious would this inexperienced girl think her mother was, who should venture
to hint, that the agreeable unknown had defects in her temper, or exceptions in her character.
She would mistake these hints of discretion for the insinuations of an uncharitable disposition.
At first she would perhaps listen to them with a generous impatience, and afterwards with a
cold and silent disdain. She would despise them as the effect of prejudice, misrepresentation,
or ignorance. The more aggravated the censure, the more vehemently would she protest in secret,
that her friendship for this dear injured creature (who is raised much higher in her esteem
by such injurious suspicions) shall know no bounds, as she is assured it can know no end.

YET this trusting confidence, this honest indiscretion, is, at this early period of life as
amiable as it is natural; and will, if wisely cultivated, produce, at its proper season, fruits
infinitely more valuable than all the guarded circumspection of premature, and therefore artificial,
prudence. Men, I believe, are seldom struck with these sudden prepossessions in favour of each
other. They are not so unsuspecting, nor so easily led away by the predominance of fancy. They
engage more warily, and pass through the several stages of acquaintance, intimacy, and confidence,
by slower gradations; but women, if they are sometimes deceived in the choice of a friend,
enjoy even then an higher degree of satisfaction than if they never trusted. For to be always
clad in the burthensome armour of suspicion is more painful and inconvenient, than to run the
hazard of suffering now and then a transient injury.

BUT the above observations only extend to the young and the inexperienced; for I am very certain,
that women are capable of as faithful and as durable friendship as any of the other sex. They
can enter not only into all the enthusiastic tenderness, but into all the solid fidelity of
attachment. And if we cannot oppose instances of equal weight with those of Nysus and Euryalus,
Theseus and Pirithous, Pylades and Orestes, let it be remembered, that it is because the recorders
of those characters were men, and that the very existence of them is merely poetical.

[6] See Voltaire's Prophecy concerning Rousseau.

ON TRUE AND FALSE MEEKNESS.

A LOW voice and soft address are the common indications of a well-bred woman, and should seem
to be the natural effects of a meek and quiet spirit; but they are only the outward and visible
signs of it: for they are no more meekness itself, than a red coat is courage, or a black one
devotion.

YET nothing is more common than to mistake the sign for the thing itself; nor is any practice
more frequent than that of endeavouring to acquire the exterior mark, without once thinking
to labour after the interior grace. Surely this is beginning at the wrong end, like attacking
the symptom and neglecting the disease. To regulate the features, while the soul is in tumults,
or to command the voice while the passions are without restraint, is as idle as throwing odours
into a stream when the source is polluted.

THE sapient king, who knew better than any man the nature and the power of beauty, has assured
us, that the temper of the mind has a strong influence upon the features: "Wisdom maketh the
face to shine," says that exquisite judge; and surely no part of wisdom is more likely to produce
this amiable effect, than a placid serenity of soul.

IT will not be difficult to distinguish the true from the artificial meekness. The former is
universal and habitual, the latter, local and temporary. Every young female may keep this rule
by her, to enable her to form a just judgment of her own temper: if she is not as gentle to
her chambermaid as she is to her visitor, she may rest satisfied that the spirit of gentleness
is not in her.

WHO would not be shocked and disappointed to behold a well-bred young lady, soft and engaging
as the doves of Venus, displaying a thousand graces and attractions to win the hearts of a
large company, and the instant they are gone, to see her look mad as the Pythian maid, and
all the frightened graces driven from her furious countenance, only because her gown was brought
home a quarter of an hour later than she expected, or her ribbon sent half a shade lighter
or darker than she ordered?

ALL men's characters are said to proceed from their servants; and this is more particularly
true of ladies: for as their situations are more domestic, they lie more open to the inspection
of their families, to whom their real characters are easily and perfectly known; for they seldom
think it worth while to practise any disguise before those, whose good opinion they do not
value, and who are obliged to submit to their most insupportable humours, because they are
paid for it.

AMONGST women of breeding, the exterior of gentleness is so uniformly assumed, and the whole
manner is so perfectly level and uni, that it is next to impossible for a stranger to know
any thing of their true dispositions by conversing with them, and even the very features are
so exactly regulated, that physiognomy, which may sometimes be trusted among the vulgar, is,
with the polite, a most lying science.

A VERY termagant woman, if she happens also to be a very artful one, will be conscious she
has so much to conceal, that the dread of betraying her real temper will make her put on an
over-acted softness, which, from its very excess, may be distinguished from the natural, by
a penetrating eye. That gentleness is ever liable to be suspected for the counterfeited, which
is so excessive as to deprive people of the proper use of speech and motion, or which, as Hamlet
says, makes them lisp and amble, and nick-name God's creatures.

THE countenance and manners of some very fashionable persons may be compared to the inscriptions
on their monuments, which speak nothing but good of what is within; but he who knows any thing
of the world, or of the human heart, will no more trust to the courtesy, than he will depend
on the epitaph.

AMONG the various artifices of factitious meekness, one of the most frequent and most plausible,
is that of affecting to be always equally delighted with all persons and all characters. The
society of these languid beings is without confidence, their friendship without attachment,
and their love without affection, or even preference. This insipid mode of conduct may be safe,
but I cannot think it has either taste, sense, or principle in it.

THESE uniformly smiling and approving ladies, who have neither the noble courage to reprehend
vice, nor the generous warmth to bear their honest testimony in the cause of virtue, conclude
every one to be ill-natured who has any penetration, and look upon a distinguishing judgment
as want of tenderness. But they should learn, that this discernment does not always proceed
from an uncharitable temper, but from that long experience and thorough knowledge of the world,
which lead those who have it to scrutinize into the conduct and disposition of men, before
they trust entirely to those fair appearances, which sometimes veil the most insidious purposes.

WE are perpetually mistaking the qualities and dispositions of our own hearts. We elevate our
failings into virtues, and qualify our vices into weaknesses: and hence arise so many false
judgments respecting meekness. Self-ignorance is at the root of all this mischief. Many ladies
complain that, for their part, their spirit is so meek they can bear nothing; whereas, if they
spoke truth, they would say, their spirit is so high and unbroken that they can bear nothing.
Strange! to plead their meekness as a reason why they cannot endure to be crossed, and to produce
their impatience of contradiction as a proof of their gentleness!

MEEKNESS, like most other virtues, has certain limits, which it no sooner exceeds than it becomes
criminal. Servility of spirit is not gentleness but weakness, and if allowed, under the specious
appearances it sometimes puts on, will lead to the most dangerous compliances. She who hears
innocence maligned without vindicating it, falsehood asserted without contradicting it, or
religion prophaned without resenting it, is not gentle but wicked.

TO give up the cause of an innocent, injured friend, if the popular cry happens to be against
him, is the most disgraceful weakness. This was the case of Madame de Maintenon. She loved
the character and admired the talents of Racine; she caressed him while he had no enemies,
but wanted the greatness of mind, or rather the common justice, to protect him against their
resentment when he had; and her favourite was abandoned to the suspicious jealousy of the king,
when a prudent remonstrance might have preserved him.--But her tameness, if not absolute connivance
in the great massacre of the protestants, in whose church she had been bred, is a far more
guilty instance of her weakness; an instance which, in spite of all her devotional zeal and
incomparable prudence, will disqualify her from shining in the annals of good women, however
she may be entitled to figure among the great and the fortunate. Compare her conduct with that
of her undaunted and pious countryman and contemporary, Bougi, who, when Louis would have prevailed
on him to renounce his religion for a commission or a government, nobly replied, "If I could
be persuaded to betray my God for a marshal's staff, I might betray my king for a bribe of
much less consequence."

MEEKNESS is imperfect, if it be not both active and passive; if it will not enable us to subdue
our own passions and resentments, as well as qualify us to bear patiently the passions and
resentments of others.

BEFORE we give way to any violent emotion of anger, it would perhaps be worth while to consider
the value of the object which excites it, and to reflect for a moment, whether the thing we
so ardently desire, or so vehemently resent, be really of as much importance to us, as that
delightful tranquillity of soul, which we renounce in pursuit of it. If, on a fair calculation,
we find we are not likely to get as much as we are sure to lose, then, putting all religious
considerations out of the question, common sense and human policy will tell us, we have made
a foolish and unprofitable exchange. Inward quiet is a part of one's self; the object of our
resentment may be only a matter of opinion; and, certainly, what makes a portion of our actual
happiness ought to be too dear to us, to be sacrificed for a trifling, foreign, perhaps imaginary
good.

THE most pointed satire I remember to have read, on a mind enslaved by anger, is an observation
of Seneca's. "Alexander (said he) had two friends, Clitus and Lysimachus; the one he exposed
to a lion, the other to himself: he who was turned loose to the beast escaped, but Clitus was
murdered, for he was turned loose to an angry man."

A PASSIONATE woman's happiness is never in her own keeping: it is the sport of accident, and
the slave of events. It is in the power of her acquaintance, her servants, but chiefly of her
enemies, and all her comforts lie at the mercy of others. So far from being willing to learn
of him who was meek and lowly, she considers meekness as the want of a becoming spirit, and
lowliness as a despicable and vulgar meanness. And an imperious woman will so little covet
the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit, that it is almost the only ornament she will not be
solicitous to wear. But resentment is a very expensive vice. How dearly has it cost its votaries,
even from the sin of Cain, the first offender in this kind! "It is cheaper (says a pious writer)
to forgive, and save the charges."

IF it were only for mere human reasons, it would turn to a better account to be patient; nothing
defeats the malice of an enemy like a spirit of forbearance; the return of rage for rage cannot
be so effectually provoking. True gentleness, like an impenetrable armour, repels the most
pointed shafts of malice: they cannot pierce through this invulnerable shield, but either fall
hurtless to the ground, or return to wound the hand that shot them.

BUT the supreme excellence of this complacent quality is, that it naturally disposes the mind
where it resides, to the practice of every other that is amiable. Meekness may be called the
pioneer of all the other virtues, which levels every obstruction, and smooths every difficulty
that might impede their entrance, or retard their progress.

THE peculiar importance and value of this amiable virtue may be farther seen in its permanency.
Honours and dignities are transient, beauty and riches frail and fugacious, to a proverb. Would
not the truly wise, therefore, wish to have some one possession, which they might call their
own in the severest exigencies? But this wish can only be accomplished by acquiring and maintaining
that calm and absolute self-possession, which, as the world had no hand in giving, so it cannot,
by the most malicious exertion of its power, take away.

THOUGHTS ON THE CULTIVATION OF THE HEART AND TEMPER IN THE EDUCATION OF DAUGHTERS.

I HAVE not the foolish presumption to imagine, that I can offer any thing new on a subject,
which has been so successfully treated by many learned and able writers. I would only, with
all possible deference, beg leave to hazard a few short remarks on that part of the subject
of education, which I would call the education of the heart. I am well aware, that this part
also has not been less skilfully and forcibly discussed than the rest, though I cannot, at
the same time, help remarking, that it does not appear to have been so much adopted into common
practice.

IT appears then, that notwithstanding the great and real improvements, which have been made
in the affair of female education, and notwithstanding the more enlarged and generous views
of it, which prevail in the present day, that there is still a very material defect, which
it is not, in general, enough the object of attention to remove. This defect seems to consist
in this, that too little regard is paid to the dispositions of the mind, that the indications
of the temper are not properly cherished, nor the affections of the heart sufficiently regulated.

IN the first education of girls, as far as the customs which fashion establishes are right,
they should undoubtedly be followed. Let the exterior be made a considerable object of attention,
but let it not be the principal, let it not be the only one.--Let the graces be industriously
cultivated, but let them not be cultivated at the expence of the virtues.--Let the arms, the
head, the whole person be carefully polished, but let not the heart be the only portion of
the human anatomy, which shall be totally overlooked.

THE neglect of this cultivation seems to proceed as much from a bad taste, as from a false
principle. The generality of people form their judgment of education by slight and sudden appearances,
which is certainly a wrong way of determining. Music, dancing, and languages, gratify those
who teach them, by perceptible and almost immediate effects; and when there happens to be no
imbecillity in the pupil, nor deficiency in the matter, every superficial observer can, in
some measure, judge of the progress.--The effects of most of these accomplishments address
themselves to the senses; and there are more who can see and hear, than there are who can judge
and reflect.

PERSONAL perfection is not only more obvious, it is also more rapid; and even in very accomplished
characters, elegance usually precedes principle.

BUT the heart, that natural seat of evil propensities, that little troublesome empire of the
passions, is led to what is right by slow motions and imperceptible degrees. It must be admonished
by reproof, and allured by kindness. Its liveliest advances are frequently impeded by the obstinacy
of prejudice, and its brightest promises often obscured by the tempests of passion. It is slow
in its acquisition of virtue, and reluctant in its approaches to piety.

THERE is another reason, which proves this mental cultivation to be more important, as well
as more difficult, than any other part of education. In the usual fashionable accomplishments,
the business of acquiring them is almost always getting forwards, and one difficulty is conquered
before another is suffered to shew itself; for a prudent teacher will level the road his pupil
is to pass, and smooth the inequalities which might retard her progress.

BUT in morals, (which should be the great object constantly kept in view) the talk is far more
difficult. The unruly and turbulent desires of the heart are not so obedient; one passion will
start up before another is suppressed. The subduing Hercules cannot cut off the heads so often
as the prolific Hydra can produce them, nor fell the stubborn Antæus so fast as he can recruit
his strength, and rise in vigorous and repeated opposition.

IF all the accomplishments could be bought at the price of a single virtue, the purchase would
be infinitely dear! And, however startling it may sound, I think it is, notwithstanding, true,
that the labours of a good and wise mother, who is anxious for her daughter's most important
interests, will seem to be at variance with those of her instructors. She will doubtless rejoice
at her progress in any polite art, but she will rejoice with trembling:--humility and piety
form the solid and durable basis, on which she wishes to raise the superstructure of the accomplishments,
while the accomplishments themselves are frequently of that unsteady nature, that if the foundation
is not secured, in proportion as the building is enlarged, it will be overloaded and destroyed
by those very ornaments, which were intended to embellish, what they have contributed to ruin.

THE more ostensible qualifications should be carefully regulated, or they will be in danger
of putting to flight the modest train of retreating virtues, which cannot safely subsist before
the bold eye of public observation, or bear the bolder tongue of impudent and audacious flattery.
A tender mother cannot but feel an honest triumph, in contemplating those excellencies in her
daughter which deserve applause, but she will also shudder at the vanity which that applause
may excite, and at those hitherto unknown ideas which it may awaken.

THE master, it is his interest, and perhaps his duty, will naturally teach a girl to set her
improvements in the most conspicuous point of light. SE FAIRE VALOIR is the great principle
industriously inculcated into her young heart, and seems to be considered as a kind of fundamental
maxim in education. It is however the certain and effectual seed, from which a thousand yet
unborn vanities will spring. This dangerous doctrine (which yet is not without its uses) will
be counteracted by the prudent mother, not in so many words, but by a watchful and scarcely
perceptible dexterity. Such an one will be more careful to have the talents of her daughter
cultivated than exhibited.

ONE would be led to imagine, by the common mode of female education, that life consisted of
one universal holiday, and that the only contest was, who should be best enabled to excel in
the sports and games that were to be celebrated on it. Merely ornamental accomplishments will
but indifferently qualify a woman to perform the duties of life, though it is highly proper
she should possess them, in order to furnish the amusements of it. But is it right to spend
so large a portion of life without some preparation for the business of living? A lady may
speak a little French and Italian, repeat a few passages in a theatrical tone, play and sing,
have her dressing-room hung with her own drawings, and her person covered with her own tambour
work, and may, notwithstanding, have been very badly educated. Yet I am far from attempting
to depreciate the value of these qualifications: they are most of them not only highly becoming,
but often indispensably necessary, and a polite education cannot be perfected without them.
But as the world seems to be very well apprised of their importance, there is the less occasion
to insist on their utility. Yet, though well-bred young women should learn to dance, sing,
recite and draw, the end of a good education is not that they may become dancers, singers,
players or painters: its real object is to make them good daughters, good wives, good mistresses,
good members of society, and good christians. The above qualifications therefore are intended
to adorn their leisure, not to employ their lives; for an amiable and wise woman will always
have something better to value herself on, than these advantages, which, however captivating,
are still but subordinate parts of a truly excellent character.

BUT I am afraid parents themselves sometimes contribute to the error of which I am complaining.
Do they not often set a higher value on those acquisitions which are calculated to attract
observation, and catch the eye of the multitude, than on those which are valuable, permanent,
and internal? Are they not sometimes more solicitous about the opinion of others, respecting
their children, than about the real advantage and happiness of the children themselves? To
an injudicious and superficial eye, the best educated girl may make the least brilliant figure,
as she will probably have less flippancy in her manner, and less repartee in her expression;
and her acquirements, to borrow bishop Sprat's idea, will be rather enamelled than embossed.
But her merit will be known, and acknowledged by all who come near enough to discern, and have
taste enough to distinguish. It will be understood and admired by the man, whose happiness
she is one day to make, whose family she is to govern, and whose children she is to educate.
He will not seek for her in the haunts of dissipation, for he knows he shall not find her there;
but he will seek for her in the bosom of retirement, in the practice of every domestic virtue,
in the exertion of every amiable accomplishment, exerted in the shade, to enliven retirement,
to heighten the endearing pleasures of social intercourse, and to embellish the narrow but
charming circle of family delights. To this amiable purpose, a truly good and well educated
young lady will dedicate her more elegant accomplishments, instead of exhibiting them to attract
admiration, or depress inferiority.

YOUNG girls, who have more vivacity than understanding, will often make a sprightly figure
in conversation. But this agreeable talent for entertaining others, is frequently dangerous
to themselves, nor is it by any means to be desired or encouraged very early in life. This
immaturity of wit is helped on by frivolous reading, which will produce its effect in much
less time than books of solid instruction; for the imagination is touched sooner than the understanding;
and effects are more rapid as they are more pernicious. Conversation should be the result of
education, not the precursor of it. It is a golden fruit, when suffered to grow gradually on
the tree of knowledge; but if precipitated by forced and unnatural means, it will in the end
become vapid, in proportion as it is artificial.

THE best effects of a careful and religious education are often very remote: they are to be
discovered in future scenes, and exhibited in untried connexions. Every event of life will
be putting the heart into fresh situations, and making demands on its prudence, its firmness,
its integrity, or its piety. Those whose business it is to form it, can foresee none of these
situations; yet, as far as human wisdom will allow, they must enable it to provide for them
all, with an humble dependence on the divine assistance. A well-disciplined soldier must learn
and practise all his evolutions, though he does not know on what service his leader may command
him, by what foe he shall be attacked, nor what mode of combat the enemy may use.

ONE great art of education consists in not suffering the feelings to become too acute by unnecessary
awakening, nor too obtuse by the want of exertion. The former renders them the source of calamity,
and totally ruins the temper; while the latter blunts and debases them, and produces a dull,
cold, and selfish spirit. For the mind is an instrument, which, if wound too high, will lose
its sweetness, and if not enough strained, will abate of its vigour.

HOW cruel is it to extinguish by neglect or unkindness, the precious sensibility of an open
temper, to chill the amiable glow of an ingenuous soul, and to quench the bright flame of a
noble and generous spirit! These are of higher worth than all the documents of learning, of
dearer price than all the advantages, which can be derived from the most refined and artificial
mode of education.

BUT sensibility and delicacy, and an ingenuous temper, make no part of education, exclaims
the pedagogue--they are reducible to no class--they come under no article of instruction--they
belong neither to languages nor to music.--What an error! They are a part of education, and
of infinitely more value,

    Than all their pedant discipline e'er knew.

It is true, they are ranged under no class, but they are superior to all; they are of more
esteem than languages or music, for they are the language of the heart, and the music of the
according passions. Yet this sensibility is, in many instances, so far from being cultivated,
that it is not uncommon to see those who affect more than usual sagacity, cast a smile of supercilious
pity, at any indication of a warm, generous, or enthusiastic temper in the lively and the young;
as much as to say, "they will know better, and will have more discretion when they are older."
But every appearance of amiable simplicity, or of honest shame, Nature's hasty conscience,
will be dear to sensible hearts; they will carefully cherish every such indication in a young
female; for they will perceive that it is this temper, wisely cultivated, which will one day
make her enamoured of the loveliness of virtue, and the beauty of holiness: from which she
will acquire a taste for the doctrines of religion, and a spirit to perform the duties of it.
And those who wish to make her ashamed of this charming temper, and seek to dispossess her
of it, will, it is to be feared, give her nothing better in exchange. But whoever reflects
at all, will easily discern how carefully this enthusiasm is to be directed, and how judiciously
its redundances are to be lopped away.

PRUDENCE is not natural to children; they can, however, substitute art in its stead. But is
it not much better that a girl should discover the faults incident to her age, than conceal
them under this dark and impenetrable veil? I could almost venture to assert, that there is
something more becoming in the very errors of nature, where they are undisguised, than in the
affectation of virtue itself, where the reality is wanting. And I am so far from being an admirer
of prodigies, that I am extremely apt to suspect them; and am always infinitely better pleased
with Nature in her more common modes of operation. The precise and premature wisdom, which
some girls have cunning enough to assume, is of a more dangerous tendency than any of their
natural failings can be, as it effectually covers those secret bad dispositions, which, if
they displayed themselves, might be rectified. The hypocrisy of assuming virtues which are
not inherent in the heart, prevents the growth and disclosure of those real ones, which it
is the great end of education to cultivate.

BUT if the natural indications of the temper are to be suppressed and stifled, where are the
diagnostics, by which the state of the mind is to be known? The wise Author of all things,
who did nothing in vain, doubtless intended them as symptoms, by which to judge of the diseases
of the heart; and it is impossible diseases should be cured before they are known. If the stream
be so cut off as to prevent communication, or so choked up as to defeat discovery, how shall
we ever reach the source, out of which are the issues of life?

THIS cunning, which, of all the different dispositions girls discover, is most to be dreaded,
is increased by nothing so much as by fear. If those about them express violent and unreasonable
anger at every trivial offence, it will always promote this temper, and will very frequently
create it, where there was a natural tendency to frankness. The indiscreet transports of rage,
which many betray on every slight occasion, and the little distinction they make between venial
errors and premeditated crimes, naturally dispose a child to conceal, what she does not however
care to suppress. Anger in one will not remedy the faults of another; for how can an instrument
of sin cure sin? If a girl is kept in a state of perpetual and slavish terror, she will perhaps
have artifice enough to conceal those propensities which she knows are wrong, or those actions
which she thinks are most obnoxious to punishment. But, nevertheless, she will not cease to
indulge those propensities, and to commit those actions, when she can do it with impunity.

GOOD dispositions, of themselves, will go but a very little way, unless they are confirmed
into good principles. And this cannot be effected but by a careful course of religious instruction,
and a patient and laborious cultivation of the moral temper.

BUT, notwithstanding girls should not be treated with unkindness, nor the first openings of
the passions blighted by cold severity; yet I am of opinion, that young females should be accustomed
very early in life to a certain degree of restraint. The natural cast of character, and the
moral distinctions between the sexes, should not be disregarded, even in childhood. That bold,
independent, enterprising spirit, which is so much admired in boys, should not, when it happens
to discover itself in the other sex, be encouraged, but suppressed. Girls should be taught
to give up their opinions betimes, and not pertinaciously to carry on a dispute, even if they
should know themselves to be in the right. I do not mean, that they should be robbed of the
liberty of private judgment, but that they should by no means be encouraged to contract a contentious
or contradictory turn. It is of the greatest importance to their future happiness, that they
should acquire a submissive temper, and a forbearing spirit: for it is a lesson which the world
will not fail to make them frequently practise, when they come abroad into it, and they will
not practise it the worse for having learnt it the sooner. These early restraints, in the limitation
here meant, are so far from being an effect of cruelty, that they are the most indubitable
marks of affection, and are the more meritorious, as they are severe trials of tenderness.
But all the beneficial effects, which a mother can expect from this watchfulness, will be entirely
defeated, if it is practised occasionally, and not habitually, and if it ever appears to be
used to gratify caprice, ill-humour, or resentment.

THOSE who have children to educate ought to be extremely patient: it is indeed a labour of
love. They should reflect, that extraordinary talents are neither essential to the well-being
of society, nor to the happiness of individuals. If that had been the case, the beneficent
Father of the universe would not have made them so rare. For it is as easy for an Almighty
Creator to produce a Newton, as an ordinary man; and he could have made those powers common
which we now consider as wonderful, without any miraculous exertion of his omnipotence, if
the existence of many Newtons had been necessary to the perfection of his wise and gracious plan.

SURELY, therefore, there is more piety, as well as more sense, in labouring to improve the
talents which children actually have, than in lamenting that they do not possess supernatural
endowments or angelic perfections. A passage of Lord Bacon's furnishes an admirable incitement
for endeavouring to carry the amiable and christian grace of charity to its farthest extent,
instead of indulging an over-anxious care for more brilliant but less important acquisitions.

A GIRL who has docility will seldom be found to want understanding enough for all the purposes
of a social, a happy, and an useful life. And when we behold the tender hope of fond and anxious
love, blasted by disappointment, the defect will as often be discovered to proceed from the
neglect or the error of cultivation, as from the natural temper; and those who lament the evil,
will sometimes be found to have occasioned it.

IT is as injudicious for parents to set out with too sanguine a dependence on the merit of
their children, as it is for them to be discouraged at every repulse. When their wishes are
defeated in this or that particular instance, where they had treasured up some darling expectation,
this is so far from being a reason for relaxing their attention, that it ought to be an additional
motive for redoubling it. Those who hope to do a great deal, must not expect to do every thing.
If they know any thing of the malignity of sin, the blindness of prejudice, or the corruption
of the human heart, they will also know, that that heart will always remain, after the very
best possible education, full of infirmity and imperfection. Extraordinary allowances, therefore,
must be made for the weakness of nature in this its weakest state. After much is done, much
will remain to do, and much, very much, will still be left undone. For this regulation of the
passions and affections cannot be the work of education alone, without the concurrence of divine
grace operating on the heart. Why then should parents repine, if their efforts are not always
crowned with immediate success? They should consider, that they are not educating cherubims
and seraphims, but men and women; creatures, who at their best estate are altogether vanity:
how little then can be expected from them in the weakness and imbecillity of infancy! I have
dwelt on this part of the subject the longer, because I am certain that many, who have set
out with a warm and active zeal, have cooled on the very first discouragement, and have afterwards
almost totally remitted their vigilance, through a criminal kind of despair.

GREAT allowances must be made for a profusion of gaiety, loquacity, and even indiscretion in
children, that there may be animation enough left to supply an active and useful character,
when the first fermentation of the youthful passions is over, and the redundant spirits shall
come to subside.

IF it be true, as a consummate judge of human nature has observed,

    That not a vanity is given in vain,

it is also true, that there is scarcely a single passion, which may not be turned to some good
account, if prudently rectified, and skilfully turned into the road of some neighbouring virtue.
It cannot be violently bent, or unnaturally forced towards an object of a totally opposite
nature, but may be gradually inclined towards a correspondent but superior affection. Anger,
hatred, resentment, and ambition, the most restless and turbulent passions which shake and
distract the human soul, may be led to become the most active opposers of sin, after having
been its most successful instruments. Our anger, for instance, which can never be totally subdued,
may be made to turn against ourselves, for our weak and imperfect obedience--our hatred, against
every species of vice--our ambition, which will not be discarded, may be ennobled: it will
not change its name, but its object: it will despise what it lately valued, nor be contented
to grasp at less than immortality.

THUS the joys, fears, hopes, desires, all the passions and affections, which separate in various
currents from the soul, will, if directed into their proper channels, after having fertilised
wherever they have flowed, return again to swell and enrich the parent source.

THAT the very passions which appear the most uncontroulable and unpromising, may be intended,
in the great scheme of Providence, to answer some important purpose, is remarkably evidenced
in the character and history of Saint Paul. A remark on this subject by an ingenious old Spanish
writer, which I will here take the liberty to translate, will better illustrate my meaning.

"TO convert the bitterest enemy into the most zealous advocate, is the work of God for the
instruction of man. Plutarch has observed, that the medical science would be brought to the
utmost perfection, when poison should be converted into physic. Thus, in the mortal disease
of Judaism and idolatry, our blessed Lord converted the adder's venom of Saul the persecutor,
into that cement which made Paul the chosen vessel. That manly activity, that restless ardor,
that burning zeal for the law of his fathers, that ardent thirst for the blood of Christians,
did the Son of God find necessary in the man who was one day to become the defender of his
suffering people.[7]"

TO win the passions, therefore, over to the cause of virtue, answers a much nobler end than
their extinction would possibly do, even if that could be effected. But it is their nature
never to observe a neutrality; they are either rebels or auxiliaries, and an enemy subdued
is an ally obtained. If I may be allowed to change the allusion so soon, I would say, that
the passions also resemble fires, which are friendly and beneficial when under proper direction,
but if suffered to blaze without restraint, they carry devastation along with them, and, if
totally extinguished, leave the benighted mind in a state of cold and comfortless inanity.

BUT in speaking of the usefulness of the passions, as instruments of virtue, envy and lying
must always be excepted: these, I am persuaded, must either go on in still progressive mischief,
or else be radically cured, before any good can be expected from the heart which has been infected
with them. I'll post here, to the satisfaction of my readers, a very strange conversation with the
secretary had a Micromegas day. CHAPTER II.

Conversation with Syrian inhabitants of Saturn.

He lay down His Excellency, his face approached the clerk, and said
Micromegas : We confess that is very diverse nature.

Truth is, the Saturnino said it is the nature as a garden, whose flowers .... Ha, said the other,
DEXA gardening. As it is, followed the secretary, as a meeting of blonde and brunette, whose
attire ..... What do I care about your brunette? interrupted the other. Or as a gallery of paintings,
whose images ...... No, Sir, no, "replied the traveler, nature is as nature. ? To hell you walk looking
for such comparisons? For joyful, "replied the secretary. If I do not want to recreate me, I want you
to instruct me, "replied the traveler. Quantas senses tell me the first thing men have of your globe.
Nothing more than seventy-two, said the academy, and everyday we complain about such a shortage, that
our imagination is dexa back our needs, and we believe that with
our seventy two senses, our ring and our five moons, no we have enough,
and it is true that despite our curiosity and the passions of our
seventy two meanings are daughters, we have plenty of time to get
bored.

Well believe it, he said Micromegas, because in our globe, we have about a thousand ways, and
We still are not that vague desires, not to worry, that constantly warns us that we are girl thing,
and that other beings much more perfect. I made some voyages, and have seen other mortals far below
us, and we are far superior, but I have seen no more desires are not real needs, and more needs
satisfaction. Perhaps one day arrive in a country where anything needed, but so far I have
not been told of this country.

Then threw themselves to form conjectures on Saturnino and Sirius, but after many ingenious reasoning
no less uncertain, they were forced to sit back facts. ? Quanto long you live? "Said the
Syrian. Ha, very little, "replied the man from Saturn. The same happens in our country, said the
Syrian, we are always complaining about the shortness of life. It is necessary
that it is this universal pension of nature. Alas! our life, said the Saturnino,
is five hundred revolutions solar film (coming to be fifteen thousand
years, or near, counting us).

You see that is almost die so that one is born: a dot is our existence, our life for a moment,
our globe an atom, and is just starting to educate themselves a little, when death snatches before gain experience.
I for my I dare not form any project and I feel like a drop of water in the vast ocean, and
what causes me more sonroxo in your presence, you see quan ridiculous figure I make in this world.
Micromegas answered her: If you were not a philosopher, would have, desconsolaros longer fear of saying that
our life is seven hundred times more extensive than yours, but know that when it has to restore the
body to the elements, and revive differently Baxo nature which is what we call die when it arrived,
I say, this moment of metamorphosis, it hardly matters have lived an eternity or a single day, that
one and another is the same. I have been in countries where people live a thousand times more
than in mine, and I saw that still complained, but are everywhere
sugetos of reason, who can give up, and thank the author of nature,
which with a wonderful kind of uniformity has spread in the universe
varieties with an endless profusion.

Thus, for example, program all people who think they are different, and they all seem in the
gift and thought. Everywhere the subject is extensive, but each globe has different properties. ? Qantas
of these properties is your matter? If you speak of the properties without the quale believe that our
globe could not survive as is, said the Saturnino, do not exceed
three hundred, to wit, the extension, impenetrability, the mobililad,
the gravitation, divisibility, etc.. Certainly, "replied the traveler,
which is sufficient for this short number on your plan of keeper narrow room,
and in all things I adore his wisdom, because if I see any difference,
also referred to in all proportions.

Your globe is small, and also what are its inhabitants, you have few feelings, and enjoy your matter
of a few properties: this is the disposal of Providence. ? Color is carefully examined your sun?
Very ashen white, said the Saturnino, and when we divide one of its rays, we find that it has seven
colors. The strip our flesh, said the Syrian, and we have thirty new colors and primitive. Quanto
In all I have examined, I have not found a sun that looks like another,
as not seen on your planet a face that is no different from all others.

After many queestiones analog, was reported in different substances were known
quantas Saturn, and was answered that he had until about thirty:
God, space, matter, extensive beings that feel, extensive beings think
and feel, people who think and are not widespread, which penetrate
and which do not penetrate, and so on.

The Syrian, whose planet is three hundred, and that he had discovered in his travels up to
three thousand, I leave extraordinarily astonished the philosopher of Saturn. Finally, having communicated
to each other almost all that he knew and did not know many things, and having space passing through
an entire solar revolution, were determined to make a short journey together philosophical. CHAPTER
III. Viage of the two inhabitants of Sirius and Saturn They were to
board our two walkers in the atmosphere of Saturn with a very decent
instrument provision mathematics, when the lady of Saturninus, who
knew him came to give bitter complaints.

This was a very graceful brunette, who had no more than fifteen hundred feet high, but repaired
with the boy through his body. iha cruel! exclaimed, after I've endured fifteen hundred years,
when I had just given up, not having gone up a hundred years old in your arms, abandon ime for
going to travel with a giant of the other world! Come on, you're not more than one curious, and
have never been in love, that if you were Saturnino legitimate, most constant serious. Where
are you going?? You want? unless you are roaming our five moons, and less changeable our annulled.
This is just, I want anymore.

The philosopher embraced her, weeping with her, as philosopher and the lady, after having fainted,
went to console with a dude. They cut our two curious, and jumped to first annular found very crushed,
as you guessed an illustrious inhabitant of our globule, and from there walked the moon, the moon.
Step one kite next to the last, and threw themselves on their servants
and their instruments. Just had walked a hundred and fifty million
miles, they encountered satellites of Jupiter. alighted on this planet,
where they stopped a year, and learned very curious secrets, which
would have given to the press, had it not been for the inquisitors
found something hard to swallow propositions, but I managed to read
the manuscript in the library of the Most Illustrious Archbishop of
... that allowed me to register their books with all the generosity
and kindness that characterize such an illustrious prelate.

Let us return however to our walkers. Leaving Jupiter, passed through a space of about a hundred million
miles, and coasted the planet Mars, the qual, as everyone knows, is five times smaller than our
globule, and they saw two moons that serve this planet and not have
been able to discover our astronomers.

Well the Abbe Ximenez is written in much Donayre against the existence
of these moons, but I appeal to those who pass by analogy, all great
philosophers who know very well that it will be possible to Mars two
moons live without at least being so far from the sun.

In any event, our walkers thing they seemed so young, who feared
not finding comfortable inn, and spent two foot forward as they do
when faced with a poor sales in the wilderness, and continue to the
next village.

But then he repented the Sirius
and his companion, who walked a long distance without finding a hostel.
After glimpsed a little light, which was land, and that seemed very petty
thing to people coming from Jupiter.

However, longer fear repent again, were determined to land on it. They went into the comet's
tail, and finding an aurora borealis hand, went inside, and gave land to the north shore of
the Baltic Sea, Julio five of seventeen hundred thirty-seven. CHAPTER IV. To realize how they
happened in the globe of the earth. Having rested a bit, had lunch two mountains that they
cook their very neatly kept. They wanted to recognize the wretched
country then where they were, and headed north to south. Each step regular
Sirius and his family was about thirty thousand feet of the king, the
dwarf followed him from a distance of Saturn, who lost his breath,
because I had to take twelve steps while the other leg stretched out,
almost like a lapdog that follows if you will excuse the comparison,
a captain of the guards of the king of Prussia.

Because they wore in a hurry these foreigners, were seen around the globe in thirty-six hours: truth
is the sun, or rather the earth, makes the same journey in one day,
but we have to repair something that is easier to rotate on its exe
to anchor foot.

They went back out to where etab first, having seen the raft, almost
imperceptible to them, called the Mediterranean, and the other guy pond
big-name Ocean surrounding our den, the dwarf gave him water to half
a leg, and had barely wet the other heels.

They went and came up and abaxo, making quanto could be determined whether or not it was inhabited
this globe: baxaronse, they lay down, tempted by all parties, but was so disproportionate eyes
and hands with the petty people who go trailing Baxo here who did
not have the slightest feeling for where they could fall into suspicion
of us and our brothers the other inhabitants of this globe.

The dwarf, sometimes with some precipitation failed, he decided then that there was no living
on earth, and his first reason was that there had been none. Micromegas given to understand with great
civility, which was founded consequeencia because, he said, with your eyes so kids do not see stars Quinquagesima
certain size, which I distinguish very clearly.? Colegis why no such stars ? If I have tempted
all, said the dwarf.

And if you have not sense there is? said another. If so bad collated this globe, "replied the dwarf,
if it is so irregular, and a configuration that seems so ridiculous that I was all set to zero.
? Not see these streams, which runs any law; those ponds that are neither round or squares, or oval
or any regular figure, all those bumps that this bristling sharp, and I have entered on your feet?
(And I wanted to talk about the mountains). ? Do not you notice the way around the globe,
flattened at the poles, and spinning around the sun direction so
embarrassed, that by necessity the climates of both poles have to
be uneducated?

What forces me to believe that there is really living in, is that no one who had reason would want
habitable. ? Who cares? Micromegas said, may not have common sense people, but after it is presumed
that this has been done without any purpose. You say that everything you think illegal here because everything
is thrown in line in Jupiter and Saturn.

Well, for the same reason perhaps is some confusion here. ? No I said that I had always noticed in
my travels variety? The Saturnino I reply to these reasons, and not completed the dispute, if
in the heat of Micromegas she had not broken the thread of her diamond necklace, and caidose these,
that they were very pretty bright, though tiny and uneven, which weighed four hundred pounds thicker
and more slender fifties.

He took the dwarf some leaning against his eyes as he saw that they
were glazed, microscopes were excellent: microscope as a boy grabbed
a hundred and sixty feet in diameter, and was applied to one eye,
while another served Micromegas two thousand and five hundred feet.

At first they saw nothing with them, because they were advanced;
was necessary put in the position required.

After the inhabitants of Saturn saw something bobbing imperceptible between two waters in the
Baltic Sea, and it was a whale, nicely laid it over the finger, and placed in a thumb, she was
taught to Sirius, that for the second echo time to laugh at the enormous smallness of the inhabitants
of our globe. Convinced that the Saturnino was inhabited our world,
then imagine that it was just for whales, and as it was great discurridor,
tried to guess where the movement came to an atom so mean, and if
they had ideas, will and free will.

Micromegas did not know what to think, but having examined the animal patiently, bag your exam not
a soul could reside in a body so small. Inclinabanse as our two travelers to believe that there
is no reason in our room, when, with the aid of a microscope, another package distinguished
thicker than a whale in the Baltic Sea walked fluctuating. We know that by that time returned from
the polar circle a flock of philosophers, who had gone to make observations
that no one had hitherto thought. they brought public papers that had
capsized their boat on the shores of Bothnia, and they had a difficult
time going out to rescue, but you never know in this world there is
to vnder rope.

I'll tell you naively the event, without omitting or adding nothing effort on the part of a historian
is exceedingly meritorious. CHAPTER V. Experiences and reasoning of both walkers. tended Micromegas
with hand very carefully to the place where via the object, and lengthening and stretching
the fingers of fear of being wrong, and opening and closing then, hold much mana the ship where
they were these gentlemen, and placed on one, without squeezing long,
not estruxarle.

Here you are a very different animal from the other, said the dwarf of Saturn, and put the pretenders
to the Syrian animal in the palm of your hand. The passengers and sailors tripulacioon, which
is believed swept away by a hurricane, and planned to have a Baxi aground, they are all in motion,
caught the sailors barrels of wine, throw them into the hand of Micromegas, and they are thrown away
after ; seize the surveyors of its quarter to circle in their sectors and their girls Lapp,
and they get off on the fingers of Sirius finally toiled much that he felt that one thing that
shook beetles in the fingers, and was a with an iron stick to the
point that he dug up one foot on the index finger: is itching him believe
that the body had become something of the animal which had in his
hand but he could not suspect anything at first, as its microscope barely
enough to distinguish a ship of a whale could not do so visible an
imperceptible entecillo like a man.

Do not want to mortify the vanity of any here, but I urge people to stop the consideration
vainglorious in this place, and consider that assuming ordinary height of a man five feet of the
king, do not lump in the ground more than a ball ten feet in circumference did an animal that
had a hundred thousand avos inch high.
 He is not obliged to trace Nature
in all her nice and varied operations, with the minute accuracy of a Boyle, or the laborious
investigation of a Newton; but his good sense will point out to him that no inconsiderable
portion of philosophical knowledge is requisite to the completion of his literary character.
The sciences are more independent, and require little or no assistance from the graces of poetry;
but poetry, if she would charm and instruct, must not be so haughty; she must be contented
to borrow of the sciences, many of her choicest allusions, and many of her most graceful embellishments;
and does it not magnify the character of true poesy, that she includes within herself all the
scattered graces of every separate art?

THE rules of the great masters in criticism may not be so necessary to the forming a good taste,
as the examination of those original mines from whence they drew their treasures of knowledge.

THE three celebrated Essays on the Art of Poetry do not teach so much by their laws as by their
examples; the dead letter of their rules is less instructive than the living spirit of their
verse. Yet these rules are to a young poet, what the study of logarithms is to a young mathematician;
they do not so much contribute to form his judgment, as afford him the satisfaction of convincing
him that he is right. They do not preclude the difficulty of the operation; but at the conclusion
of it, furnish him with a fuller demonstration that he has proceeded on proper principles.
When he has well studied the masters in whose schools the first critics formed themselves,
and fancies he has caught a spark of their divine Flame, it may be a good method to try his
own compositions by the test of the critic rules, so far indeed as the mechanism of poetry
goes. If the examination be fair and candid, this trial, like the touch of Ithuriel's spear,
will detect every latent error, and bring to light every favourite failing.

GOOD taste always suits the measure of its admiration to the merit of the composition it examines.
It accommodates its praises, or its censure, to the excellence of a work, and appropriates
it to the nature of it. General applause, or indiscriminate abuse, is the sign of a vulgar
understanding. There are certain blemishes which the judicious and good-natured reader will
candidly overlook. But the false sublime, the tumour which is intended for greatness, the distorted
figure, the puerile conceit, and the incongruous metaphor, these are defects for which scarcely
any other kind of merit can atone. And yet there may be more hope of a writer (especially if
he be a a young one), who is now and then guilty of some of these faults, than of one who avoids
them all, not through judgment, but feebleness, and who, instead of deviating into error is
continually falling short of excellence. The meer absence of error implies that moderate and
inferior degree of merit with which a cold heart and a phlegmatic taste will be better satisfied
than with the magnificent irregularities of exalted spirits. It stretches some minds to an
uneasy extension to be obliged to attend to compositions superlatively excellent; and it contracts
liberal souls to a painful narrowness to descend to books of inferior merit. A work of capital
genius, to a man of an ordinary mind, is the bed of Procrustes to one of a short stature, the
man is too little to fill up the space assigned him, and undergoes the torture in attempting
it: and a moderate, or low production to a man of bright talents, is the punishment inflicted
by Mezentius; the living spirit has too much animation to endure patiently to be in contact
with a dead body.

TASTE sesms to be a sentiment of the soul which gives the bias to opinion, for we feel before
we reflect. Without this sentiment, all knowledge, learning and opinion, would be cold, inert
materials, whereas they become active principles when stirred, kindled, and inflamed by this
animating quality.

THERE is another feeling which is called Enthusiasm. The enthusiasm of sensible hearts is so
strong, that it not only yields to the impulse with which striking objects act on it, but such
hearts help on the effect by their own sensibility. In a scene where Shakespeare and Garrick
give perfection to each other, the feeling heart does not merely accede to the delirium they
occasion: it does more, it is enamoured of it, it solicits the delusion, it sues to be deceived,
and grudgingly cherishes the sacred treasure of its feelings. The poet and performer concur
in carrying us

    Beyond this visible diurnal sphere,

they bear us aloft in their airy course with unresisted rapidity, if they meet not with any
obstruction from the coldness of our own feelings. Perhaps, only a few fine spirits can enter
into the detail of their writing and acting; but the multitude do not enjoy less acutely, because
they are not able philosophically to analyse the sources of their joy or sorrow. If the others
have the advantage of judging, these have at least the privilege of feeling: and it is not
from complaisance to a few leading judges, that they burst into peals of laughter, or melt
into delightful agony; their hearts decide, and that is a decision from which there lies no
appeal. It must however be confessed, that the nicer separations of character, and the lighter
and almost imperceptible shades which sometimes distinguish them, will not be intimately relished,
unless there be a consonancy of taste as well as feeling in the spectator; though where the
passions are principally concerned, the profane vulgar come in for a larger portion of the
universal delight, than critics and connoisseurs are willing to allow them.

YET enthusiasm, though the natural concomitant of genius, is no more genius itself, than drunkenness
is cheerfulness; and that enthusiasm which discovers itself on occasions not worthy to excite
it, is the mark of a wretched judgment and a false taste.

NATURE produces innumerable objects: to imitate them, is the province of Genius; to direct
those imitations, is the property of Judgment; to decide on their effects, is the business
of Taste. For Taste, who sits as supreme judge on the productions of Genius, is not satisfied
when she merely imitates Nature: she must also, says an ingenious French writer, imitate beautiful
Nature. Your fate will be moving, "said the animal star: truth is that you will be one-eyed life,
but as it is not, live quite happily, provided that never make the nonsensical purpose of being completely
sane. ? With that this is something that is not possible to achieve? Memnon replied pulling a
sob. Because you can not, "replied the other, be fully intelligent, fully-strong, fully powerful, or completely
happy.

We ourselves are very far from being so; a balloon is to the truth where all this is, but everything
goes by degrees into the hundred billion worlds crops in space. In the second there is less
pleasure and less wisdom than the first, in the third less than in the second, and so it continues
until the last, where everyone is completely crazy. I am afraid, said Memnon, that our globe
is just such a madhouse of the universe, you say. Not so much as that, he said the spirit, but it is
nearby and that everything must take its place indicated. In this case, Memnon said, very misguided
are certain poets and philosophers, who say that all is well. Reason carry, said the philosopher
of this world, if they see the placement of the entire universe. iha! replied the poor Memnon,
I'll believe that as long as is not crooked. End of Memnon. * *
* * * THE TWO Console. said one day the great philosopher cytophylic
a distraught lady, and had every reason to be so: Lady, the Queen
of England, daughter of the great Henrique quarto, was no less miserable
than you: the cast of his kingdom, he was on the point of dying in
the ocean in a shipwreck, and witnessed the death of the king her
husband in a scaffold.

 But caricature
is much easier than an exact outline, and the colouring of fancy less difficult than that of truth.

PEOPLE do not always know what taste they have, till it is awakened by some corresponding object;
nay, genius itself is a fire, which in many minds would never blaze, if not kindled by some
external cause.

NATURE, that munificent mother, when she bestows the power of judging, accompanies it with
the capacity of enjoying. The judgment, which is clear sighted, points out such objects as
are calculated to inspire love, and the heart instantaneously attaches itself to whatever is
lovely.

IN regard to literary reputation, a great deal depends on the state of learning in the particular
age or nation, in which an author lives. In a dark and ignorant period, moderate knowledge
will entitle its possessor to a considerable share of fame; whereas, to be distinguished in
a polite and lettered age, requires striking parts and deep erudition.

WHEN a nation begins to emerge from a state of mental darkness, and to strike out the first
rudiments of improvement, it chalks out a few strong but incorrect sketches, gives the rude
out-lines of general art, and leaves the filling up to the leisure of happier days, and the
refinement of more enlightened times. Their drawing is a rude Sbozzo, and their poetry wild
minstrelsy.

PERFECTION of taste is a point which a nation no sooner reaches, than it overshoots; and it
is more difficult to return to it, after having passed it, than it was to attain when they
fell short of it. Where the arts begin to languish after having flourished, they seldom indeed
fall back to their original barbarism, but a certain feebleness of exertion takes place, and
it is more difficult to recover them from this dying languor to their proper strength, than
it was to polish them from their former rudeness; for it is a less formidable undertaking to
refine barbarity, than to stop decay: the first may be laboured into elegance, but the latter
will rarely be strengthened into vigour. 

The chacha Ramoncica in this predicament, I grabbed her arm, pulled me and took me to the room
of Betsy, with a pleasant surprise on my part. Found D. Gregorio so disturbed his wife, who increased
their misgivings and wanted to register everything, always followed
by his brother.

A WRITER of correct taste will hardly ever go out of his way, even in search of embellishment:
he will study to attain the best end by the most natural means; for he knows that what is not
natural cannot be beautiful, and that nothing can be beautiful out of its own place; for an
improper situation will convert the most striking beauty into a glaring defect. When by a well-connected
chain of ideas, or a judicious succession of events, the reader is snatched to "Thebes or Athens,"
what can be more impertinent than for the poet to obstruct the operation of the passion he
has just been kindling, by introducing a conceit which contradicts his purpose, and interrupts
his business? Indeed, we cannot be transported, even in idea, to those places, if the poet
does not manage so adroitly as not to make us sensible of the journey: the instant we feel
we are travelling, the writer's art fails, and the delirium is at an end.

PROSERPINE, says Ovid, would have been restored to her mother Ceres, had not Ascalaphus seen
her stop to gather a golden apple, when the terms of her restoration were, that she should
taste nothing. A story pregnant with instruction for lively writers, who by neglecting the
main business, and going out of the way for false gratifications, lose sight of the end they
should principally keep in view. It was this false taste that introduced the numberless concetti,
which disgrace the brightest of the Italian poets; and this is the reason, why the reader only
feels short and interrupted snatches of delight in perusing the brilliant but unequal compositions
of Ariosto, instead of that unbroken and undiminished pleasure, which he constantly receives
from Virgil, from Milton, and generally from Tasso. Dismounted, entered the house and climbed the stairs
quietly, followed by his brother. For this or Order of the maid, who had arranged everything very
well, D. Gregory stumbled in the dark with a bench that had traveled through
and gave a slam, making enough noise and throwing some cursing. Soon
he got up without being hurt and walked hurriedly to his wife's apartment.

He heard the noise and cursing , and three more or less criminals, we are filled with consternation.
Good heavens! - Joanna said in a choked voice - Flee you, save me, my husband arrives. There
was no way out of there without encountering D. Gregory, not hiding in the
bedroom or without shelter in Betsy's room, which was next door.


To conclude; Genius is a rare and precious gem, of which few know the worth; it is fitter for
the cabinet of the connoisseur, than for the commerce of mankind. Good sense is a bank-bill,
convenient for change, negotiable at all times, and current in all places. It knows the value
of small things, and considers that an aggregate of them makes up the sum of human affairs.
It elevates common concerns into matters of importance, by performing them in the best manner,
and at the most suitable season. Good sense carries with it the idea of equality, while Genius
is always suspected of a design to impose the burden of superiority; and respect is paid to
it with that reluctance which always attends other imposts, the lower orders of mankind generally
repining most at demands, by which they are least liable to be affected.

AS it is the character of Genius to penetrate with a lynx's beam into unfathomable abysses
and uncreated worlds, and to see what is not, so it is the property of good sense to distinguish
perfectly, and judge accurately what really is. Good sense has not so piercing an eye, but
it has as clear a sight: it does not penetrate so deeply, but as far as it does see, it discerns
distinctly. Good sense is a judicious mechanic, who can produce beauty and convenience out
of suitable means; but Genius (I speak with reverence of the immeasurable distance) bears some
remote resemblance to the divine architect, who produced perfection of beauty without any visible
materials, who spake, and it was created; who said, Let it be, and it was. 

Reached the anteroom of the statesman, and was waiting for two hours shall say that he was there,
and two after it had said, by this time most firm purpose to recommend to the minister and his
insolent concierges to the anger of the angel Ituriel.

THE END.

Transcriber's Note: Two small typos have been corrected.

Lately published by the same Author,

ODE TO DRAGON, Mr. GARRICK'S House-Dog at Hampton. Price 6d.

SIR ELDRED OF THE BOWER, and the BLEEDING ROCK. Legendary Tales. Price 2s. 6d. Printed for
T. Cadell in the Strand.

The Sixth Edition of The SEARCH after HAPPINESS. A Pastoral Drama. Price 1s. 6d.

The Third Edition of The INFLEXIBLE CAPTIVE. A Tragedy. Price 1s. 6d. Printed for T. Cadell,
in the Strand; and J. Wilkie, in St. Paul's Church-Yard.

