A

                     SERMON

          PREACHED ON THE ANNIVERSARY

                     OF THE

              BOSTON FEMALE ASYLUM

                      FOR

               DESTITUTE ORPHANS,

              SEPTEMBER 25, 1835.

 PUBLISHED BY REQUEST OF THE BOARD OF MANAGERS.

        BY JONATHAN M. WAINWRIGHT, D. D.
       Rector of Trinity Church, Boston.

                    Boston.
        DUTTON AND WENTWORTH, PRINTERS,
         Nos. 10 & 12, Exchange Street,
                     1835.

TO THE BOARD OF MANAGERS.

LADIES,

Upon your first application to me for a copy of this sermon to be printed, I respectfully declined
giving it, because it was not prepared with the slightest reference to such a result, and more
especially because it has been my uniform practice to abstain from appearing in this way before
the public, when I could with propriety do so. To your renewed request, and the reasons you
state for making it, I feel myself constrained to yield, although my own conviction in regard
both to the character of the discourse itself, and to the inexpediency of such publications,
except in very special cases, remains the same. If, however, its possession, as you imply,
can afford gratification to any one interested in your most excellent institution, I ought
not perhaps to be longer influenced by a consideration which relates merely to myself in withholding
it. I therefore commit it to you, and am,

                    With the greatest respect,

                        Your friend and servant,

                            JONA. M. WAINWRIGHT.

BOSTON, OCTOBER 6, 1835.

SERMON.

PROVERBS, XXII. 9.

    "He that hath a bountiful eye shall be blessed; for he giveth of his
    bread to the poor."

How merciful and gracious is our Heavenly Father in presenting to us his commandments, united
with the promise of ample rewards to those who will obey them. As the author of our being,
the creator and preserver of our means of existence, and our sources of happiness, he has an
unqualified right to our constant obedience and our best services. Yet he treats us as if we
were in a measure independent of him, and as if our faculties and possessions were an underived
property, for he demands of us no duty or sacrifice for which he does not offer an abundant
remuneration. And even to the performance of those duties which are in themselves a source
of gratification to the well regulated mind, the inducements are greatly increased by appendant
promises. We might not think it remarkable that labor and sacrifices, and self-denial, should
be encouraged by the hope of reward; but even the delightful offices of mercy and charity will
be remunerated, and heavenly blessings will hereafter be showered upon the heads of those who
may now be enjoying the luxury of doing good. Surely I address myself to those who know that
there is a pleasure in deeds of beneficence,--a pleasure the noblest and most delightful of
which our nature is susceptible. And you my brethren, must have had experience of this sentiment,
or vain will be my efforts to unfold to you the subject that is before me. I appear in behalf
of the destitute orphan, and if I thought I had need to convince you that there is a sweet
and abiding satisfaction in relieving those who are truly objects of charity, I should be utterly
discouraged at the outset. But such is not to be my ungrateful task; for I see around me those
who I doubt not have often realized the pleasures of beneficence, and have often bestowed their
charities upon the simple impulse of generous feeling. I would now, however, present to you
a more exalted motive to beneficence than its secret pleasures. I would show you that it is
not simply a gratification you can enjoy, but a solemn duty which you must perform; and therefore
that your charities are not to be governed by momentary impulses, but by settled principles,
and that you are to do good not merely because you take delight in it, but that you may secure
the favor of God who has commanded this service. And as I have observed that where our Heavenly
Father has put forth a commandment, he has also annexed a reward to induce us to obey it, so
in our text the duty of beneficence is presented in the form of a beatitude, like the introductory
precepts of our blessed Lord's sermon on the mount. "He that hath a bountiful eye shall be
BLESSED."

I propose, first, briefly to explain this duty, then to state its obligation, and lastly to
allude to the blessing promised in connexion with it.

1. The expression of my text is peculiar. We hear in common speech of a liberal or open hand
as the characteristic of a benevolent man; but the phrase, a bountiful eye, belongs alone to
the sacred scriptures. There also the opposite character of avarice and cruelty is represented
by a figure drawn from the same source. In the book from which my text is selected, we are
warned not to partake of the offered banquet of him who spreads his table by constraint, and
with ostentatious or mercenary views, and not from the impulse of an hospitable spirit. Eat
thou not the bread of him that hath an evil eye, neither desire thou his dainty meats: For
as he thinketh in his heart so is he: Eat and drink saith he to thee; but his heart is not
with thee.[1] And again the character and punishment of the man who is so anxious to acquire
wealth as to disregard the principles of honesty and the claims of charity is thus described.
A phrase more expressive, could not be selected to describe an ardent and enlightened beneficence.
A liberal hand, signifies merely generosity in giving, but a bountiful eye implies not simply
this, but also industry in looking about for objects of distress, and discrimination in the
mode of relieving them, and tenderness and kind expressions accompanying our charities. All
these are essential features of true christian beneficence.

1. To give of our money, is perhaps, the very least praise-worthy part, and certainly the part
of easiest performance in the way of charity. Many there are who yield to the solicitation
of an object of distress, or to an application from the agent of some charitable society merely
that they may escape from painful importunity. Others again, who feel and acknowledge the obligation
of sharing a portion of their wealth with the poor, are yet glad to appease the monitions of
conscience at the least expense of time and thought. They therefore give freely, but with too
little attention to securing a proper channel for their bounty. The consequence is that it
often runs in waste places, and feeds intemperance and dishonesty when it might be made to
revive and nourish the hapless victims of an unmerited poverty. He then, who hath a bountiful
eye, will not only be ready to distribute and willing to communicate,[4] but will also industriously
look about for proper objects. He will cheerfully yield a portion of his time as well as of
his wealth to the work of charity. Remembering who hath set him the example of going about
doing good, he will not remain inactive upon his station, and give only to him that asketh,
he will in person seek out the habitations of distress, or will at least aid with his counsels
and labors some of those benevolent societies, which are now established in every christian
land.[5] I know that the avocations of business in a mercantile community are oftentimes urgent,
and that time is more valuable than the small contribution by which exemption from actual labor
in the cause of charity may be procured. Still however, the truly benevolent man will not refuse
his personal exertions when he is convinced they can be serviceable, and the sacrifices he
makes and the interest he feels in the work in which he is engaged, will afford him pleasures
that the passively generous can never comprehend.

2. But the bountiful eye will not only industriously search for occupation, it will also exercise
a discriminating watchfulness. How essential is this to a profitable exercise of charitable
distribution. He who is not aware of the deceptions which are constantly practised by many
of the poor, and of the injudicious modes which are often adopted for relieving their wants,
must have had but small experience in this duty. Sound judgment is required, and without it
a liberal and active charity may produce evil rather than good. Evil to the community, not
to the benevolent individual. If our alms are given with proper motives, we shall not fail
of our reward from our Heavenly Father, though we fail of doing the good we intended. We are
often deceived; but this should not be made an argument, as is frequently the case, for contracting
our bounties. It should only excite us to greater caution. The common applicants at our doors
and in our streets, are in general, undeserving of the alms which they entreat. This however,
is by no means uniformly their character, for I have known the most worthy objects, those whom
modesty and a laudable pride had restrained, until acute distress had fairly driven them forth
to seek needful comforts for the destitute sick, or perhaps, bread for their famishing children.
We must not, with cruel indifference, drive such away in the common herd of undeserving beggars.
We must consider the cause of the poor,[6] as respects their characters and their condition.

Perhaps the most discriminating mode of exercising charity, and one which, if generally adopted,
would almost preclude the necessity for giving to unknown objects would be this. Let all persons
desirous of performing works of mercy from christian principle, make an estimate of what they
ought to contribute from the stores with which God has favored them.[7] Let them duly consider
the various claims that are presented to them, and from amongst the many charitable societies
with which we are surrounded, let them select the depositaries of their bounty. Let each family
also, according to their means, select one or more of the poor whom they can know, and to a
certain extent, follow through their good or ill conduct. These let them regard as a charge
peculiarly committed to them. Let them become acquainted with the wants, the infirmities, the
troubles, the sorrows of these the poorer members of their families, united to them by the
bonds of christian relationship. The intercourse will be mutually salutary. It will produce
a fuller and healthier developement of the christian character than can be brought out where
the ranks in life are kept in a state of separation by the stern despotism of artificial distinctions,
where there are no opportunities of passing from one to the other the softening influence of
sympathizing feelings, and where on the one side pride, luxury and selfishness are nurtured,
and on the other, envy, hatred and discontent. Were the custom I recommend universally adopted
amongst a christian people, would not extreme distress from poverty be almost banished from
amongst us? Should we ever be called to endure the pain of beholding destitute and miserable
persons, except where incurable vice had made them such?

3. Would not this custom also bring into more general practice the other characteristic I mentioned
of him who hath a bountiful eye,--giving his charities with benevolent feelings and kind looks?
We should ever remember, my brethren, that poverty, though it may clothe a person with rags,
does not always kill the sensibilities of the heart. The poor are of like passions with ourselves,
they like ourselves, can feel the sting of unkind words, and the cruel piercings of an evil
eye. If we are satisfied upon any occasion that duty to the general interests of society requires
of us to reject their petitions, let it never be with a scornful countenance or angry words.
Let our rebukes, if they are needed, be tempered with mild expressions--they will be felt with
tenfold power. And when we feel called upon to relieve one who asks for charity, let us not
do it as though our alms were extorted. There are those who in performing an act of kindness,
yet do it so ungraciously, that it is felt to be no kindness. And there are on the other hand
those, who in giving a refusal, yet give it without causing pain--sometimes even they communicate
pleasure by showing sympathy where they cannot administer relief. The phrase in my text expresses
admirably the influence of such amiable conduct. It is the eye that speaks cruel sentiments
more powerfully than the tongue, and it is the eye also that reveals the movements of a noble
and generous sympathy. The bountiful eye then, is the evidence of a humane and benevolent heart,
prompting its possessor to thoughts and deeds of charity.

2. Need I state to a christian assembly the necessity laid upon us all to cultivate the character
I have thus attempted briefly to describe? To feed the hungry, to clothe the naked, to visit
and comfort the sick and the afflicted, is incumbent upon every man endowed with moral perception,
but the obligations of the christian to pursue this course of conduct, are most weighty and
inalienable. He cannot shut out from his attention the sufferings and misfortunes of his brethren
of the human family without renouncing his name, and without forfeiting his rights to the hopes
and promises of the gospel. Our religion is emphatically the religion of love. Love is the
end of the commandment, the perfection of the christian character, and the most acceptable
offering we can present to Almighty God. Upon this principle the poor have a claim,--a claim
stronger than human law could establish upon their fellow men. We are all the stewards and
almoners of Providence, and a rigid account will be demanded of those means which were given
to us in trust for the purposes of beneficence. Let the rich man ask himself by what means
he has been prospered in life, and inhabits the splendid or the commodious habitation, while
another has been condemned to eat the bitter bread of poverty. He may reply that he has been
industrious and provident, that he has passed a life of anxious labor to amass the wealth or
the competency he enjoys. But can he forget that all his success must at last be referred to
the great disposer of events? Can he be ignorant that it is God who has filled his basket and
his store, who has given the genial heat and refreshing showers to his harvest, and guarded
them from blasting and mildew, who has commanded the favoring winds to blow upon his richly
freighted vessels, and has saved them from rocks and tempests, who has bestowed upon him his
powers of mind, and afforded him health and opportunity to employ them? Can he be unmindful
of all this when he beholds the fluctuations of prosperity, and the sudden and unexpected manner
in which it is both given and again taken away? Surely then the thoughtful and conscientious
man will esteem his possessions, not so much a right which he has obtained as a trust committed
to him, and he will acknowledge that the strictest justice approves what religion emphatically
demands, that with a bountiful eye we should look upon the poor and destitute.

Such is our solemn duty; and it is important that it should be regarded in this light. Beneficence
should not be merely the overflowing of a generous heart. This would be an unsafe and uncertain
ground on which to place the principle of charitable distribution. Interesting objects indeed
might not suffer from it, the orphan, the afflicted widow, decayed and broken age. Cold and
insensible must be the heart that could shut up its sympathies from such petitioners. True
beneficence however, cannot always be a delight. "It is not," says a powerful writer,[8] "an
indulgence to the finer sensibilities of the mind, but according to the sober declarations
of scripture, a work and a labor, a business in which you must encounter vexation, opposition,
and fatigue, where you are not always to meet with that elegance which allures the fancy, or
with that humble and retired adversity which interests the more tender propensities of the
heart, but as a business, where reluctance must often be overcome by a sense of duty, and where,
though opposed at every step by envy, disgust and disappointment, you are bound to persevere
in obedience to the law of God, and the sober instigation of principle." Is it not well then,
my brethren, to establish beneficence upon the broad ground of christian obligation, rather
than commend it to you by the high gratifications which it sometimes affords? Are not the interests
of the poor in this manner more effectually secured? If the grand principle can be established
in your breasts, that you are to do good not simply because you delight in this work, but because
the dictates of justice and the laws of God require you to be charitable, will you not be preserved
from the indiscretions of a heated benevolence on the one hand, and from the cruelty and consequent
punishment of selfishness and avarice on the other?

3. But are there then any demands made upon our charity, which when answered can yield us no
reward or blessing? Surely not. Has it not already been declared that God demands of us no
duty or sacrifice for which he does not offer us an abundant remuneration? And does he not
emphatically pronounce his blessing upon the virtue I am now attempting to explain and enforce?
"He that hath a bountiful eye shall be BLESSED." The scriptures are filled with motives, inducements,
promises, encouragements, addressed to every generous, nay to every interested feeling. God
has a right to all we have, for he only lends us all, yet he condescends to receive a portion
from us again, as if a favor were conferred upon himself, and he has put in his stead the sick,
the naked, the hungry and the afflicted, and says, inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of
the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me.[13] And not only does he condescend
thus to accept our charitable deeds, but gives them his blessing and reward. Blessed is he
that considereth the poor; the Lord will deliver him in time of trouble.[14]

While then, my brethren, we have every encouragement to persevere in works of beneficence,
though they may be accompanied with labor, and be repaid with human ingratitude, let us be
duly thankful that there are other occasions on which we can discharge duty, and at the same
time open a source of the purest and noblest gratification. Yes--painful as may be some of
those walks of charity which the christian must pursue, and revolting as are some of those
objects which he must encounter, we know that there are paths for the benevolent where their
footsteps fall pleasantly, and a refreshing fragrance surrounds them, and smiling objects meet
them, and satisfactions the most delightful, urge them forward. We can sometimes give, and
pleasure shall accompany the act, and unmingled good shall follow it, and gratitude shall reward
it, and God himself shall crown it with the brightest wreath. Say I not true when I speak of
giving to the destitute orphan? Is not this a deed of unalloyed satisfaction, is it not one
upon which the bountiful eye may look to fill the soul with an unrestrained generosity? Here
is required no cold calculation of the amount of good to be effected, here is no room for anxious
doubt concerning the result of the benevolent act.

Asylums for the destitute orphan are among those institutions which even the severe, and in
some respects, the cold and selfish principles of Political Economy cannot justly disapprove
of. To the truly benevolent, and to the pious christian, they have always been, and must ever
be, objects of deep interest. Other charities may be perverted in some degree to evil purposes.
Their effect may be to encourage idle and dissolute conduct, and to increase the evil they
would remedy, by operating as a bounty upon pauperism. To some extent this has been the effect
of alms-houses, and of many of those societies which, with the best intentions, have been administered
to adult persons. We acknowledge, indeed, that protection, shelter, and subsistence for the
aged and decrepit, who are past the ability to labor for their own daily food, medicine and
medical advice, and in cases of absolute poverty, the retreat of the hospital, are real charities,
such as suffering humanity requires, and pure benevolence will provide for. But in other cases,
it is questionable whether relief can be given without ill effects, except it be accompanied
with the opportunity and the necessity for bodily labor. I am not, however, upon the present
occasion to discuss the general question of charitable societies. It is one of great importance,
and one which we think is not yet generally understood. Much light has recently been thrown
upon it, especially in this city, by the active and intelligent exertions and experiments of
some of our fellow citizens,--and it should continue to occupy the serious attention of our
civil authorities, and of every benevolent and public spirited person.

But who can doubt about the expediency, as well as the mercy and christian obligation, of fostering
the poor and helpless orphan, whose natural protectors have been removed by the Providence
of God? Naked, we must clothe them, for their helplessness cannot provide for their own covering;
hungry, we must feed them, for they appeal to us with the moaning cry and innocent tears of
childhood; strangers in this world, but just entered upon it, and left without a home to receive,
or a parent's fostering care to protect them, we must take them in. We cannot resist or evade
such an appeal, we know that it comes from a guileless petitioner, whose distresses no vice
of its own has produced, and no exertions of its own can relieve. Should any one of you in
your walks through our city during its inclement winter behold a child almost naked, shivering
with cold and fainting with hunger, and did you learn that it had wandered unprotected from
the home where its only surviving parent had just expired in all the wretchedness of poverty
and disease, and finding its mother's voice silent, her hands that had cherished it cold, and
her eyes closed, the little one had gone forth weeping and alone, would any of you refuse it
a home, and food and protection?--It is this sacred duty which our Institution has performed
for many such suffering and innocent beings. Where, if not to such an object, can the heart
send forth its sympathies without restraint, and give itself to all the delights of a glowing
generosity?

But I need not tell you of these heavenly satisfactions as I see around me those who have long
known and shared them, for this Institution has, from its foundation, been a favored and fostered
one in our community. Many are the labors that have cheerfully been bestowed upon its interests,
many and generous the contributions given to it, and many and ardent the prayers offered up
in its behalf to the throne of grace. Of those who first united themselves in this work and
labor of love, I find that all have been removed, and have gone to receive their eternal reward.

The last of this respected and excellent band has recently been summoned away from us, and
she went gently and peacefully, in a blessed old age, in full preparation, followed by the
tears and benedictions of the widow and the fatherless whom she had relieved, and in beautiful
accordance with the meek, the honorable, and useful existence, which she had mercifully been
permitted to accomplish. One of the earliest founders of this Asylum, and for many years its
first Directress, she had uniformly given to it her countenance and assistance; and dying,
bequeathed to it a generous evidence of her attachment. Long will her memory be cherished in
this community, as a model of the efficient but unassuming and lovely graces that constitute
the character of the christian matron; long will it be cherished--and especially by you, Ladies,
the present Managers of the Asylum, who have been witnesses of the fidelity, the courtesy,
the discretion, the zeal, with which her duties as associated with you were discharged.[15]
The Institution has descended to you, the successors as it were of a blessed company who are
now we trust, in communion with that Saviour, whose precepts of benevolence they so faithfully
fulfilled, and with that blessed company of the spirits of the just made perfect, who now surround
the throne of God and the Lamb. You need not our exhortation that you should walk worthy of
their example, but you will not reject our devout wishes and prayers, that an equal measure
of success may attend your future labors, and that a heavenly and eternal reward may hereafter
crown them.

To you, my hearers generally, who have assembled in honor of the anniversary of our Institution
and to encourage it in its pious labors, would I address a few words in conclusion. We doubt
not your benevolence, we know that the orphan can never plead to you in vain, we believe that
your hearts will ever be enlarged in proportion to the urgency of the claims of the Institution.
Its necessities must of course increase with our rapidly increasing population, and be assured
it can well and judiciously employ all the bounty you will bestow upon it. Should it be possible
for any one here present to feel cold and indifferent to the claims of this Institution, I
would say, realize the pitiable condition of an orphan infant. To you who are parents and are
watching over your growing offspring, and can imagine how bitter would be your distress at
the thought of being torn from them--remember, that these are destitute of a father's protection
and a mother's anxious love. Be ye then their comfort and their stay. As you look upon your
own offspring, and reflect with gratitude that you are yet preserved to watch over their tender
infancy and dependant youth, and as you pray that you may still shelter them until they can
withstand the storms and adversities of life, think how you may repay your Almighty Benefactor
in the persons of those, who are also his children; think also, how deep will be your ingratitude,
if while so blessed, you can "despise these little ones." Your children are yet around you,
and you watch over them, but you cannot pierce into the solemn darkness of futurity--they may
yet be helpless, parentless, friendless,--as ye would that men should do to you, do ye also
to them likewise.[16]

Ye also, who have experienced, and perhaps still enjoy, the watchful care and affectionate
caresses of devoted parents, forget not that there are those, who have never rejoiced in the
sound of a father's voice, or a mother's gentle embraces. And can you, who have known such
delights refuse your sympathy to these children of the most cruel privation? No. You will remember
those, who have been for ever cut off from the sweetest pleasures of life; whose lips have
never learned to say--"father"--"mother,"--and to behold the countenances of these dearest
friends lighten up with joy at the sound, and their arms extended for the fond embrace. You
will,--yes my brethren,--will you not all,--all here present,--remember them? The bountiful
eye, which looks upon their sad condition, and relieves them, shall be blessed--blessed of
men in their full applause--blessed in its own soothing approbation, and more than all, and
above all, blessed of the God of all blessing, now and for ever more. Amen.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Proverbs xxiii. 6, 7.

[2] Proverbs xxviii. 22.

[3] Deuteronomy xv. 7-10.

[4] 1 Timothy vi. 18.

[5] The Board of Visitors of the Poor, as established in this city, is one of the most practically
useful institutions which the modern spirit of enlightened charity has devised. Its object
is not merely to search out the sick and needy and to relieve them, but also to investigate
the claims of any applicants for charity that may be recommended to it, and thus to prevent
impositions as far as practicable. Every family that has not time to disburse its charities
under the superintendence of its own members, should be in communication with this Board. Measures
are now in progress to organize a system, which shall render this Institution more effective
even than it has yet been, in accomplishing the important purposes for which it was established.
When completed, public notice will be given. Let every benevolent individual in our community
then come forward and give this system his countenance and pecuniary support; and let all resolve
by a united effort to do away the baleful influence of a tolerated pauperism, by detecting
and discountenancing every vicious and unworthy applicant for charity, and by industriously
searching out and promptly relieving every real and deserving object of distress.

[6] Proverbs xxix. 7.

[7] The custom recommended by St. Paul to the Galatians and Corinthians, as we learn from 1
Corinthians xvi. 1, 2. has recently been brought into prominent notice, and begins to be practiced
in the Episcopal Church, especially as applicable to the cause of missions. Why should it not
be adopted in all Christian families, and thus let the principle--the sound and effective principle--of
systematic charity be extensively established amongst us.

[8] Dr. Chalmers.

[9] Proverbs, xi. 17.

[10] Same, xix. 17.

[11] Isaiah, lviii. 10, 11.

[12] Matthew, v. 7.

[13] Matthew, xxv. 40.

[14] Psalms, xli. 1.

[15] Mrs. SARAH PARKMAN, the relict of Samuel Parkman, Esq., one of the most distinguished
of the merchants of this city. Those who knew her, and have seen how faithfully, affectionately,
and judiciously she discharged the duties of a daughter, a wife, a parent to her own offspring,
and a mother to many others, who with her own children, have abundant reason to "rise up and
call her blessed;" or who have learned from report the leading events of her virtuous, benevolent
and active life, will esteem the humble tribute thus paid to her memory, as proceeding from
an estimate of her excellencies by no means exaggerated. As an evidence of the value of her
services to the Asylum, the following extract has, by permission, been taken from the Minutes
of the Board of Managers:--

At a meeting of the Board of Managers of the Boston Female Asylum, held on the last Tuesday
of July, 1835,--

VOTED, That the Managers are deeply sensible of the loss sustained since the last meeting,
in the death of their excellent First Directress, Mrs. Sarah Parkman, the last who remained
at the Board, of its original members, and for the last fourteen years its presiding Officer.
That they hold in affectionate remembrance her gentleness, her charity, her thoughtfulness
for others, her constant endeavor to do good; and it may be permitted to add,--for it was a
conspicuous trait in her character,--the sincerity of heart with which, in all her varied intercourse,
she followed the apostolic injunction, "be courteous."

Also, that they acknowledge with much gratitude to her, and to the children by whom her wishes
were so promptly fulfilled, the receipt of Five Hundred Dollars, the last testimony of her
interest in an Institution, which, from its foundation, has owed so much to her labors, her
counsels, and the liberality, which even in death, did not fail.

       *       *       *       *       *

Since the establishment of the Asylum in 1800, 357 children have been admitted. Of these, 273
have been placed at service, or otherwise removed; 13 have died, and 71 remained in the Asylum,
on the 35th anniversary.

[16] Luke xvi. 31. Capitalisation of
    religious terms remain as printed.

