It seemed made of brown putty, the nose was like india-rubber, and the eyes had that dull,
sullen look of a mongrel got of a fox-terrier and a bull- dog.  Like this sort of mongrel also
his eyes turned a brownish-red when he was excited.

You could always tell when something had gone wrong with Ibrahim the Orderly, by that curious
dull glare in his eyes.  Selamlik Pasha said to Fielding that it was hashish; Fielding said
it was a cross breed of Soudanese and fellah.  But little Dicky Donovan said it was something
else, and he kept his eye upon Ibrahim.  And Dicky, with all his faults, could screw his way
from the front of a thing to the back thereof like no other civilised man you ever knew.  But
he did not press his opinions upon Fielding, who was an able administrator and a very clever
fellow also, with a genial habit of believing in people who served him: and that is bad in
the Orient.

As an orderly Ibrahim was like a clock: stiff in his gait as a pendulum, regular as a minute.
He had no tongue for gossip either, so far as Fielding knew.  Also, five times a day he said
his prayers--an unusual thing for a Gippy soldier-servant; for as the Gippy's rank increases
he soils his knees and puts his forehead in the dust with discretion.  This was another reason
why Dicky suspected him.

It was supposed that Ibrahim could not speak a word of English; and he seemed so stupid, he
looked so blank, when English was spoken, that Fielding had no doubt the English language was
a Tablet of Abydos to him.  But Dicky was more wary, and waited.  He could be very patient
and simple, and his delicate face seemed as innocent as a girl's when he said to Ibrahim one
morning: "Ibrahim, brother of scorpions, I'm going to teach you English!" and, squatting like
a Turk on the deck of the Amenhotep, the stern-wheeled tub which Fielding called a steamer,
he began to teach Ibrahim.

"Say 'Good-morning, kind sir,'" he drawled.

No tongue was ever so thick, no throat so guttural, as Ibrahim's when he obeyed this command.
That was why suspicion grew the more in the mind of Dicky.  But he made the Gippy say: "Good-morning,
kind sir," over and over again.  Now, it was a peculiar thing that Ibrahim's pronunciation
grew worse every time; which goes to show that a combination of Soudanese and fellah doesn't
make a really clever villain.  Twice, three times, Dicky gave him other words and phrases to
say, and practice made Ibrahim more perfect in error.

Dicky suddenly enlarged the vocabulary thus: "An old man had three sons: one was a thief, another
a rogue, and the worst of them all was a soldier.  But the soldier died first!"

As he said these words he kept his eyes fixed on Ibrahim in a smiling, juvenile sort of way;
and he saw the colour--the brownish-red colour-- creep slowly into Ibrahim's eyes.  For Ibrahim's
father had three sons: and certainly one was a thief, for he had been a tax-gatherer; and one
was a rogue, for he had been the servant of a Greek money-lender; and Ibrahim was a soldier!

Ibrahim was made to say these words over and over again, and the red fire in his eyes deepened
as Dicky's face lighted up with what seemed a mere mocking pleasure, a sort of impish delight
in teasing, like that of a madcap girl with a yokel.  Each time Ibrahim said the words he jumbled
them worse than before.  Then Dicky asked him if he knew what an old man was, and Ibrahim said
no.  Dicky said softly in Arabic that the old man was a fool to have three such sons--a thief
and a rogue and a soldier. With a tender patience he explained what a thief and a rogue were,
and his voice was curiously soft when he added, in Arabic: "And the third son was like you,
Mahommed--and he died first."

Ibrahim's eyes gloomed under the raillery--under what he thought the cackle of a detested Inglesi
with a face like a girl, of an infidel who had a tongue that handed you honey on the point
of a two-edged sword. In his heart he hated this slim small exquisite as he had never hated
Fielding.  His eyes became like little pots of simmering blood, and he showed his teeth in
a hateful way, because he was sure he should glut his hatred before the moon came full.

Little Dicky Donovan knew, as he sleepily told Ibrahim to go, that for months the Orderly had
listened to the wholesome but scathing talk of Fielding and himself on the Egyptian Government,
and had reported it to those whose tool and spy he was.

That night, the stern-wheeled tub, the Amenhotep, lurched like a turtle on its back into the
sands by Beni Hassan.  Of all the villages of Upper Egypt, from the time of Rameses, none has
been so bad as Beni Hassan. Every ruler of Egypt, at one time or another, has raided it and
razed it to the ground.  It was not for pleasure that Fielding sojourned there.

This day, and for three days past, Fielding had been abed in his cabin with a touch of Nilotic
fever.  His heart was sick for Cairo, for he had been three months on the river; and Mrs. Henshaw
was in Cairo--Mrs. Henshaw, the widow of Henshaw of the Buffs, who lived with her brother,
a stone's-throw from the Esbekieh Gardens.  Fielding longed for Cairo, but Beni Hassan intervened.
The little man who worried Ibrahim urged him the way his private inclinations ran, but he was
obdurate: duty must be done.

Dicky Donovan had reasons other than private ones for making haste to Cairo.  During the last
three days they had stopped at five villages on the Nile, and in each place Dicky, who had
done Fielding's work of inspection for him, had been met with unusual insolence from the Arabs
and fellaheen, officials and others; and the prompt chastisement he rendered with his riding-whip
in return did not tend to ease his mind, though it soothed his feelings.  There had been flying
up the river strange rumours of trouble down in Cairo, black threats of rebellion-- of a seditious
army in the palm of one man's hand.  At the cafes on the Nile, Dicky himself had seen strange
gatherings, which dispersed as he came on them.  For, somehow, his smile had the same effect
as other men's frowns.

This evening he added a whistle to his smile as he made his inspection of the engine-room and
the galley and every corner of the Amenhotep, according to his custom.  What he whistled no
man knew, not even himself. It was ready-made.  It might have been a medley, but, as things
happened, it was an overture; and by the eyes, the red-litten windows of the mind of Mahommed
Ibrahim, who squatted beside the Yorkshire engineer at the wheel, playing mankalah, he knew
it was an overture.

As he went to his cabin he murmured to himself "There's the devil to pay: now I wonder who
pays?"  Because he was planning things of moment, he took a native drum down to Fielding's
cabin, and made Fielding play it, native fashion, as he thrummed his own banjo and sang the
airy ballad, "The Dragoons of Enniskillen."  Yet Dicky was thinking hard all the time.

Now there was in Beni Hassan a ghdzeeyeh, a dancing-woman of the Ghawazee tribe, of whom, in
the phrase of the moralists, the less said the better. What her name was does not matter. 
She was well-to-do.  She had a husband who played the kemengeh for her dancing.  She had as
good a house as the Omdah, and she had two female slaves.

Dicky Donovan was of that rare type of man who has the keenest desire to know all things, good
or evil, though he was fastidious when it came to doing them.  He had a gift of keeping his
own commandments.  If he had been a six-footer and riding eighteen stone--if he hadn't been,
as Fielding often said, so "damned finicky," he might easily have come a cropper.  For, being
absolutely without fear, he did what he listed and went where he listed.  An insatiable curiosity
was his strongest point, save one.  If he had had a headache--though he never had--he would
at once have made an inquiry into the various kinds of headache possible to mortal man, with
pungent deductions from his demonstrations.  So it was that when he first saw a dancing-girl
in the streets of Cairo he could not rest until by circuitous routes he had traced the history
of dancing- girls back through the ages, through Greece and the ruby East, even to the days
when the beautiful bad ones were invited to the feasts of the mighty, to charm the eyes of
King Seti or Queen Hatsu.

He was an authority on the tribe of the Ghawazee, proving, to their satisfaction and his own,
their descent from the household of Haroon al Rashid.  He was, therefore, welcome among them.
But he had found also, as many another wise man has found in "furrin parts," that your greatest
safety lies in bringing tobacco to the men and leaving the women alone. For, in those distant
lands, a man may sell you his nuptial bed, but he will pin the price of it to your back one
day with the point of a lance or the wedge of a hatchet.

Herebefore will be found the reason why Dicky Donovan--twenty-five and no moustache, pink-cheeked
and rosy-hearted, and "no white spots on his liver"--went straight, that particular night,
to the house of the chief dancing-girl of Beni Hassan for help in his trouble.  From her he
had learned to dance the dance of the Ghawazee.  He had learned it so that, with his insatiable
curiosity, his archaeological instinct, he should be able to compare it with the Nautch dance
of India, the Hula-Hula of the Sandwich Islanders, the Siva of the Samoans.

A half-hour from the time he set his foot in Beni Hassan two dancing- girls issued from the
house of the ghdzeeyeh, dressed in shintiydn and muslin tarah, anklets and bracelets, with
gold coins about the forehead --and one was Dicky Donovan.  He had done the rare thing: he
had trusted absolutely that class of woman who is called a "rag" in that far country, and a
"drab" in ours.  But he was a judge of human nature, and judges of human nature know you are
pretty safe to trust a woman who never trusts, no matter how bad she is, if she has no influence
over you.  He used to say that the better you are and the worse she is, the more you can trust
her.  Other men may talk, but Dicky Donovan knows.

What Dicky's aunt, the Dowager Lady Carmichael, would have said to have seen Dicky flaunting
it in the clothes of a dancing-girl through the streets of vile Beni Hassan, must not be considered.
None would have believed that his pink-and-white face and slim hands and staringly white ankles
could have been made to look so boldly handsome, so impeachable. But henna in itself seems
to have certain qualities of viciousness in its brownish-red stain, and Dicky looked sufficiently
abandoned.  The risk was great, however, for his Arabic was too good and he had to depend upon
the ghdzeeyeh's adroitness, on the peculiar advantage of being under the protection of the
mistress of the house as large as the Omdah's.

From one cafe to another they went.  Here a snakecharmer gathered a meagre crowd about him;
there an 'A'l'meh, or singing-girl, lilted a ribald song; elsewhere hashish-smokers stretched
out gaunt, loathsome fingers towards them; and a Sha'er recited the romance of Aboo Zeyd. 
But Dicky noticed that none of the sheikhs, none of the great men of the village, were at these
cafes; only the very young, the useless, the licentious, or the decrepit.  But by flickering
fires under the palm- trees were groups of men talking and gesticulating; and now and then
an Arab galloped through the street, the point of his long lance shining. Dicky felt a secret,
like a troubled wind, stirring through the place, a movement not explainable by his own inner
tremulousness.

At last they went to the largest cafe beside the Mosque of Hoseyn.  He saw the Sheikh-el-beled
sitting on his bench, and, grouped round him, smoking, several sheikhs and the young men of
the village.  Here he and the ghdzeeyeh danced.  Few noticed them; for which Dicky was thankful;
and he risked discovery by coming nearer the circle.  He could, however, catch little that
they said, for they spoke in low tones, the Sheikh-el- beled talking seldom, but listening closely.

The crowd around the cafe grew.  Occasionally an Arab would throw back his head and cry: "Allahu
Akbar!"  Another drew a sword and waved it in the air.  Some one in front of him whispered
one startling word to a camel-driver.

Dicky had got his cue.  To him that whisper was as loud and clear as the "La ilaha illa-llah!"
called from the top of a mosque.  He understood Ibrahim the Orderly now; he guessed all--rebellion,
anarchy, massacre. A hundred thoughts ran through his head: what was Ibrahim's particular part
in the swaggering scheme was the first and the last of them.

Ibrahim answered for himself, for at that moment he entered the burning circle.  A movement
of applause ran round, then there was sudden silence. The dancing-girls were bid to stop their
dancing, were told to be gone. The ghazeeyeh spat at them in an assumed anger, and said that
none but swine of Beni Hassan would send a woman away hungry.  And because the dancing-girl
has power in the land, the Sheikh-el-beled waved his hand towards the cafe, hastily calling
the name of a favourite dish.  Eyes turned unconcernedly towards the brown clattering ankles
of the two as they entered the cafe and seated themselves immediately behind where the Sheikh-el-beled
squatted.  Presently Dicky listened to as sombre a tale as ever was told in the darkest night.
The voice of the tale-teller was that of Ibrahim, and the story was this: that the citadel
at Cairo was to be seized, that the streets of Alexandria were to be swept free of Europeans,
that every English official between Cairo and Kordofan was to be slain.  Mahommed Ibrahim,
the spy, who knew English as well as Donovan Pasha knew Arabic, was this very night to kill
Fielding Bey with his own hand!

This night was always associated in Dicky's mind with the memory of stewed camel's-meat.  At
Ibrahim's words he turned his head from the rank steam, and fingered his pistol in the loose
folds of his Arab trousers. The dancing-girl saw the gesture and laid a hand upon his arm.

"Thou art one against a thousand," she whispered; "wait till thou art one against one."

He dipped his nose in the camel-stew, for some one poked a head in at the door--every sense
in him was alert, every instinct alive.

"To-night," said Mahommed Ibrahim, in the hoarse gutturals of the Bishareen, "it is ordered
that Fielding Bey shall die--and by my hand, mine own, by the mercy of God!  And after Fielding
Bey the clean-faced ape that cast the evil eye upon me yesterday, and bade me die.  'An old
man had three sons,' said he, the infidel dog, 'one was a thief, another a rogue, and the third
a soldier--and the soldier died first.'  'A camel of Bagdad,' he called me.  Into the belly
of a dead camel shall he go, be sewn up like a cat's liver in a pudding, and cast into the
Nile before God gives tomorrow a sun."

Dicky pushed away the camel-stew.  "It is time to go," he said.

The ghdzeeyeh rose with a laugh, caught Dicky by the hand, sprang out among the Arabs, and
leapt over the head of the village barber, calling them all "useless, sodden greybeards, with
no more blood than a Nile shad, poorer than monkeys, beggars of Beni Hassan!"  Taking from
her pocket a handful of quarter-piastres, she turned on her heels and tossed them among the
Arabs with a contemptuous laugh.  Then she and Dicky disappeared into the night.

II

When Dicky left her house, clothed in his own garments once more, but the stains of henna still
on his face and hands and ankles, he pressed into the ghazeeyeh's hand ten gold-pieces.  She
let them fall to the ground.

"Love is love, effendi," she said.  "Money do they give me for what is no love.  She who gives
freely for love takes naught in return but love, by the will of God!"  And she laid a hand
upon his arm.

"There is work to do!" said Dicky; and his hand dropped to where his pistol lay--but not to
threaten her.  He was thinking of others.

"To-morrow," she said; "to-morrow for that, effendi," and her beautiful eyes hung upon his.

"There's corn in Egypt, but who knows who'll reap it to-morrow?  And I shall be in Cairo to-morrow."

"I also shall be in Cairo to-morrow, O my lord and master!" she answered.

"God give you safe journey," answered Dicky, for he knew it was useless to argue with a woman.
He was wont to say that you can resolve all women into the same simple elements in the end.

Dicky gave a long perplexed whistle as he ran softly under the palms towards the Amenhotep,
lounging on the mud bank.  Then he dismissed the dancing-girl from his mind, for there was
other work to do.  How he should do it he planned as he opened the door of Fielding's cabin
softly and saw him in a deep sleep.

He was about to make haste on deck again, where his own nest was, when, glancing through the
window, he saw Mahommed Ibrahim stealing down the bank to the boat's side.  He softly drew-to
the little curtain of the cabin window, leaving only one small space through which the moonlight
streamed.  This ray of light fell just across the door through which Mahommed Ibrahim would
enter.  The cabin was a large one, the bed was in the middle.  At the head was a curtain slung
to protect the sleeper from the cold draughts of the night.

Dicky heard a soft footstep in the companionway, then before the door. He crept behind the
curtain.  Mahommed Ibrahim was listening without. Now the door opened very gently, for this
careful Orderly had oiled the hinges that very day.  The long flabby face, with the venomous
eyes, showed in the streak of moonlight.  Mahommed Ibrahim slid inside, took a step forward
and drew a long knife from his sleeve.  Another move towards the sleeping man, and he was near
the bed; another, and he was beside it, stooping over.  .  .

Now, a cold pistol suddenly thrust in your face is disconcerting, no matter how well laid your
plans.  It was useless for the Orderly to raise his hand: a bullet is quicker than the muscles
of the arm and the stroke of a knife.

The two stood silent an instant, the sleeping man peaceful between them. Dicky made a motion
of his head towards the door.  Mahommed Ibrahim turned.  Dicky did not lower his pistol as
the Orderly, obeying, softly went as he had softly come.  Out through the doorway, up the stairs,
then upon the moonlit deck, the cold muzzle of the pistol at the head of Mahommed Ibrahim.

Dicky turned now, and faced him, the pistol still pointed.

Then Mahommed Ibrahim spoke.  "Malaish!" he said.  That was contempt. It was Mahommedan resignation;
it was the inevitable.  "Malaish--no matter!" he said again; and "no matter" was in good English.

Dicky's back was to the light, the Orderly's face in the full glow of it. Dicky was standing
beside the wire communicating with the engineer's cabin.  He reached out his hand and pulled
the hook.  The bell rang below.  The two above stood silent, motionless, the pistol still levelled.

Holgate, the young Yorkshire engineer, pulled himself up to the deck two steps of the ladder
at a time.  "Yes, sir," he said, coming forward quickly, but stopping short when he saw the
levelled pistol.  "Drop the knife, Ibrahim," said Dicky in a low voice.  The Orderly dropped
the knife.

"Get it, Holgate," said Dicky; and Holgate stooped and picked it up. Then he told Holgate the
story in a few words.  The engineer's fingers tightened on the knife.

"Put it where it will be useful, Holgate," said Dicky.  Holgate dropped it inside his belt.

"Full steam, and turn her nose to Cairo.  No time to lose!"  He had told Holgate earlier in
the evening to keep up steam.

He could see a crowd slowly gathering under the palm-trees between the shore and Beni Hassan.
They were waiting for Mahommed Ibrahim's signal.

Holgate was below, the sailors were at the cables.  "Let go ropes!" Dicky called.

A minute later the engine was quietly churning away below; two minutes later the ropes were
drawn in; half a minute later still the nose of the Amenhotep moved in the water.  She backed
from the Nile mud, lunged free.

"An old man had three sons; one was a thief, another a rogue, and the worst of the three was
a soldier--and he dies first!  What have you got to say before you say your prayers?" said
Dicky to the Orderly.

"Mafish!" answered Mahommed Ibrahim, moveless.  "Mafish--nothing!"  And he said "nothing" in
good English.

"Say your prayers then, Mahommed Ibrahim," said Dicky in that voice like a girl's; and he backed
a little till he rested a shoulder against the binnacle.

Mahommed Ibrahim turned slightly till his face was towards the east.  The pistol now fell in
range with his ear.  The Orderly took off his shoes, and, standing with his face towards the
moon, and towards Mecca, he murmured the fatihah from the Koran.  Three times he bowed, afterwards
he knelt and touched the deck with his forehead three times also.  Then he stood up.  "Are
you ready?" asked Dicky.

"Water!" answered Mahommed Ibrahim in English.  Dicky had forgotten that final act of devotion
of the good Mahommedan.  There was a filter of Nile-water near.  He had heard it go drip-drip,
drip-drip, as Mahommed Ibrahim prayed.

"Drink," he said, and pointed with his finger.  Mahommed Ibrahim took the little tin cup hanging
by the tap, half filled it, drank it off, and noiselessly put the cup back again.  Then he
stood with his face towards the pistol.

"The game is with the English all the time," said Dicky softly.

"Malaish!" said Mahommed.  "Jump," said Dicky.

One instant's pause, and then, without a sound, Ibrahim sprang out over the railing into the
hard-running current, and struck out for the shore. The Amenhotep passed him.  He was in the
grasp of a whirlpool so strong that it twisted the Amenhotep in her course.  His head spun
round like a water-fly, and out of the range of Dicky's pistol he shrieked to the crowd on
the shore.  They burst from the palm-trees and rushed down to the banks with cries of rage,
murder, and death; for now they saw him fighting for his life.  But the Amenhotep's nose was
towards Cairo, and steam was full on, and she was going fast.  Holgate below had his men within
range of a pistol too.  Dicky looked back at the hopeless fight as long as he could see.

Down in his cabin Fielding Bey slept peacefully, and dreamed of a woman in Cairo.

THE EYE OF THE NEEDLE

In spite of being an Englishman with an Irish name and a little Irish blood, Dicky Donovan
had risen high in the favour of the Khedive, remaining still the same Dicky Donovan he had
always been--astute but incorruptible.  While he was favourite he used his power wisely, and
it was a power which had life and death behind it.  When therefore, one day, he asked permission
to take a journey upon a certain deadly business of justice, the Khedive assented to all he
asked, but fearing for his safety, gave him his own ring to wear and a line under his seal.

With these Dicky set forth for El Medineh in the Fayoum, where his important business lay.
As he cantered away from El Wasta, out through the green valley and on into the desert where
stands the Pyramid of Maydoum, he turned his business over and over in his mind, that he might
study it from a hundred sides.  For miles he did not see a human being-- only a caravan of
camels in the distance, some vultures overhead and the smoke of the train behind him by the
great river.  Suddenly, however, as he cantered over the crest of a hill, he saw in the desert-trail
before him a foot-traveller, who turned round hastily, almost nervously, at the sound of his
horse's feet.

It was the figure of a slim, handsome youth, perhaps twenty, perhaps thirty.  The face was
clean-shaven, and though the body seemed young and the face was unlined, the eyes were terribly
old.  Pathos and fanaticism were in the look, so Dicky Donovan thought.  He judged the young
Arab to be one of the holy men who live by the gifts of the people, and who do strange acts
of devotion; such as sitting in one place for twenty years, or going without clothes, or chanting
the Koran ten hours a day, or cutting themselves with knives.  But this young man was clothed
in the plain blue calico of the fellah, and on his head was a coarse brown fez of raw wool.
Yet round the brown fez was a green cloth, which may only be worn by one who has been a pilgrimage
to Mecca.

"Nehar-ak koom said--God be with you!" said Dicky in Arabic.

"Nehar-ak said, efendi--God prosper thy greatness!" was the reply, in a voice as full as a
man's, but as soft as a woman's--an unusual thing in an Arab.  "Have you travelled far?" asked
Dicky.

"From the Pyramid of Maydoum, effendi," was the quiet reply.

Dicky laughed.  "A poor tavern; cold sleeping there, Mahommed."

"The breath of Allah is warm," answered the Arab.  Dicky liked the lad's answer.  Putting a
hand in his saddle-bag, he drew out a cake of dourha bread and some onions--for he made shift
to live as the people lived, lest he should be caught unawares some time, and die of the remembrance
of too much luxury in the midst of frugal fare.

"Plenty be in your home, Mahommed!" he said, and held out the bread and onions.

The slim hands came up at once and took the food, the eyes flashed a strange look at Dicky.
"God give you plenty upon your plenty, effendi, and save your soul and the souls of your wife
and children, if it be your will, effendi!"

"I have no wife, praise be to God," said Dicky; "but if I had, her soul would be saved before
my own, or I'm a dervish!"  Then something moved him further, and he unbuttoned his pocket--for
there really was a button to Dicky's pocket.  He drew out a five-piastre piece, and held it
down to the young Arab.  "For the home-coming after Mecca," he said, and smiled.

The young Arab drew back.  "I will eat thy bread, but no more, effendi," he said quickly.

"Then you're not what I thought you were," said Dicky under his breath, and, with a quick good-bye,
struck a heel into the horse's side and galloped away toward El Medineh.

In El Medineh Dicky went about his business--a bitter business it was, as all Egypt came to
know.  For four days he pursued it, without halting and in some danger, for, disguise himself
as he would in his frequenting of the cafes, his Arabic was not yet wholly perfect.  Sometimes
he went about in European dress, and that was equally dangerous, for in those days the Fayoum
was a nest of brigandage and murder, and an European--an infidel dog--was fair game.

But Dicky had two friends--the village barber, and the moghassil of the dead, or body-washer,
who were in his pay; and for the moment they were loyal to him.  For his purpose, too, they
were the most useful of mercenaries: for the duties of a barber are those of a valet-de-chambre,
a doctor, registrar and sanitary officer combined; and his coadjutor in information and gossip
was the moghassil, who sits and waits for some one to die, as a raven on a housetop waits for
carrion.  Dicky was patient, but as the days went by and nothing came of all his searching,
his lips tightened and his eyes became more restless.  One day, as he sat in his doorway twisting
and turning things in his mind, with an ugly knot in his temper, the barber came to him quickly.

"Saadat el basha, I have found the Englishwoman, by the mercy of Allah!"

Dicky looked at Achmed Hariri for a moment without stirring or speaking; his lips relaxed,
his eyes softening with satisfaction.

"She is living?"

"But living, saadat el basha."

Dicky started to his feet.  "At the mudirieh?"

"At the house of Azra, the seller of sherbet, saadat el basha."

"When did she leave the mudirieh?"

"A week past, effendi."

"Why did she leave?"

"None knows save the sister of Azra, who is in the harem.  The Englishwoman was kind to her
when she was ill, and she gave her aid."

"The Mudir has not tried to find her?"

"Will the robber make a noise if the horse he has stolen breaks free, effendi?"

"Why has she not flown the place?"

"Effendi, can the broken-winged bird fly!"

"She is ill?"  He caught the barber by the arm.

"As a gazelle with an arrow in its breast."

Dicky's small hand tightened like a vice on the barber's thin arm.  "And he who sped the arrow,
Achmed Hariri?"

Achmed Hariri was silent.

"Shall he not die the death?"

Achmed Hariri shrank back.

Dicky drew from his pocket a paper with seals, and held it up to the barber's eyes.  The barber
stared, drew back, salaamed, bowed his head, and put a hand upon his turban as a slave to his
master.

"Show me the way, Mahommed," said Dicky, and stepped out.

Two hours later Dicky, with pale face, and fingers clutching his heavy riding-whip fiercely,
came quickly towards the bridge where he must cross to go to the mudirieh.  Suddenly he heard
an uproar, and saw men hurrying on in front of him.  He quickened his footsteps, and presently
came to a house on which had been freshly painted those rough, staring pictures of "accidents
by flood and field," which Mecca pilgrims paint on their houses like hatchments, on their safe
return--proclamation of their prestige.

Presently he saw in the grasp of an infuriated crowd the Arab youth he had met in the desert,
near the Pyramid of Maydoum.  Execrations, murderous cries arose from the mob.  The youth's
face was deathly pale, but it had no fear.  Upon the outskirts of the crowd hung women, their
robes drawn half over their faces, crying out for the young man's death. Dicky asked the ghaflir
standing by what the youth had done.

"It is no youth, but a woman," he answered--"the latest wife of the Mudir.  In a man's clothes--"

He paused, for the head sheikh of El Medineh, with two Ulema, entered the throng.  The crowd
fell back.  Presently the Sheikh-el-beled mounted the mastaba by the house, the holy men beside
him, and pointing to the Arab youth, spoke loudly:

"This sister of scorpions and crocodiles has earned a thousand deaths. She was a daughter of
a pasha, and was lifted high.  She was made the wife of Abbas Bey, our Mudir.  Like a wanton
beast she cut off her hair, clothed herself as a man, journeyed to Mecca, and desecrated the
tomb of Mahomet, who hath written that no woman, save her husband of his goodness bring her,
shall enter the Kingdom of Heaven."

He paused, and pointed to the rough pictures on the walls.  "This morning, dressed as a man,
she went in secret to the sacred purple pillar for barren women in the Mosque of Amrar, by
the Bahr-el-Yusef, and was found there with her tongue to it.  What shall be done to this accursed
tree in the garden of Mahomet?"

"Cut it down!" shouted the crowd; and the Ulema standing beside the Sheikh-el-beled said: "Cut
down for ever the accursed tree."

"To-morrow, at sunrise, she shall die as a blasphemer, this daughter of Sheitan the Evil One,"
continued the holy men.

"What saith the Mudir?" cried a tax-gatherer.  "The Mudir himself shall see her die at sunrise,"
answered the chief of the Ulema.

Shouts of hideous joy went up.  At that moment the woman's eyes met Dicky's, and they suddenly
lighted.  Dicky picked his way through the crowd, and stood before the Sheikh-el-beled.  With
an Arab salute, he said:

"I am, as you know, my brother, a friend of our master the Khedive, and I carry his ring on
my finger."  The Sheikh-el-beled salaamed as Dicky held up his hand, and a murmur ran through
the crowd.  "What you have done to the woman is well done, and according to your law she should
die.  But will ye not let her tell her story, so it may be written down, that when perchance
evil voices carry the tale to the Khedive he shall have her own words for her condemnation?"

The Ulema looked at the Sheikh-el-beled, and he made answer: "It is well said; let the woman
speak, and her words be written down."

"Is it meet that all should hear?" asked Dicky, for he saw the look in the woman's eyes.  "Will
she not speak more freely if we be few?"

"Let her be taken into the house," said the Sheikhel-beled.  Turning to the holy men, he added:
"Ye and the Inglesi shall hear."

When they were within the house, the woman was brought in and stood before them.

"Speak," said the Sheikh-el-beled to her roughly.  She kept her eyes fixed on Dicky as she
spoke: "For the thing I have done I shall answer. I had no joy in the harem.  I gave no child
to my lord, though often I put my tongue to the sacred pillar of porphyry in the Mosque of
Amrar. My lord's love went from me.  I was placed beneath another in the harem. .  .  .  Was
it well?  Did I not love my lord?  was the sin mine that no child was born to him?  It is written
that a woman's prayers are of no avail, that her lord must save her at the last, if she hath
a soul to be saved.  .  .  .  Was the love of my lord mine?"  She paused, caught a corner of
her robe and covered her face.

"Speak on, O woman of many sorrows," said Dicky.  She partly uncovered her face, and spoke
again: "In the long night, when he came not and I was lonely and I cried aloud, and only the
jackals beyond my window answered, I thought and thought.  My brain was wild, and at last I
said: 'Behold, I will go to Mecca as the men go, and when the fire rises from the Prophet's
tomb, bringing blessing and life to all, it may be that I shall have peace, and win heaven
as men win it.  For behold!  what is my body but a man's body, for it beareth no child.  And
what is my soul but a man's soul, that dares to do this thing!' .  .  ."

"Thou art a blasphemer," broke in the chief of the Ulema.

She gave no heed, but with her eyes on Dicky continued:

"So I stole forth in the night with an old slave, who was my father's slave, and together we
went to Cairo.  .  .  .  Behold, I have done all that Dervishes do: I have cut myself with
knives, I have walked the desert alone, I have lain beneath the feet of the Sheikh's horse
when he makes his ride over the bodies of the faithful, I have done all that a woman may do
and all that a man may do, for the love I bore my lord.  Now judge me as ye will, for I may
do no more."

When she had finished, Dicky turned to the Sheikhel-beled and said: "She is mad.  Behold, Allah
hath taken her wits!  She is no more than a wild bird in the wilderness."

It was his one way to save her; for among her people the mad, the blind, and the idiot are
reputed highly favoured of God.

The Sheikh-el-beled shook his head.  "She is a blasphemer.  Her words are as the words of one
who holds the sacred sword and speaks from the high pulpit," he said sternly; and his dry lean
face hungered like a wolf's for the blood of the woman.

"She has blasphemed," said the Ulema.

Outside the house, quietness had given place to murmuring, murmuring to a noise, and a noise
to a tumult, through which the yelping and howling of the village dogs streamed.

"She shall be torn to pieces by wild dogs," said the Sheikh-el-beled.

"Let her choose her own death," said Dicky softly; and, lighting a cigarette, he puffed it
indolently into the face of the Arab sitting beside him.  For Dicky had many ways of showing
hatred, and his tobacco was strong.  The sea has its victims, so had Dicky's tobacco.

"The way of her death shall be as we choose," said the Sheikh-el-beled, his face growing blacker,
his eyes enlarging in fury.

Dicky yawned slightly, his eyes half closed.  He drew in a long breath of excoriating caporal,
held it for a moment, and then softly ejected it in a cloud which brought water to the eyes
of the Sheikh-el-beled.  Dicky was very angry, but he did not look it.  His voice was meditative,
almost languid as he said:

"That the woman should die seems just and right--if by your kindness and the mercy of God ye
will let me speak.  But this is no court, it is no law: it is mere justice ye would do."

"It is the will of the people," the chief of the Ulema interjected.  "It is the will of Mussulmans,
of our religion, of Mahomet," he said.

"True, O beloved of Heaven, who shall live for ever," said Dicky, his lips lost in an odorous
cloud of 'ordinaire.'  "But there be evil tongues and evil hearts; and if some son of liars,
some brother of foolish tales, should bear false witness upon this thing before our master
the Khedive, or his gentle Mouffetish--"

"His gentle Mouffetish" was scarcely the name to apply to Sadik Pasha, the terrible right-hand
of the Khedive.  But Dicky's tongue was in his cheek.

"There is the Mudir," said the Sheikh-el-beled: "he hath said that the woman should die, if
she were found."

"True; but if the Mudir should die, where would be his testimony?" asked Dicky, and his eyes
half closed, as though in idle contemplation of a pleasing theme.  "Now," he added, still more
negligently, "I shall see our master the Khedive before the moon is full.  Were it not well
that I should be satisfied for my friends?"

Dicky smiled, and looked into the eyes of the Mussulmans with an incorruptible innocence; he
ostentatiously waved the cigarette smoke away with the hand on which was the ring the Khedive
had given him.

"Thy tongue is as the light of a star," said the bright-eyed Sheikh-el- beled; "wisdom dwelleth
with thee."  The woman took no notice of what they said.  Her face showed no sign of what she
thought; her eyes were unwaveringly fixed on the distance.

"She shall choose her own death," said the Sheikhel-beled; "and I will bear word to the Mudir."

"I dine with the Mudir to-night; I will carry the word," said Dicky; "and the death that the
woman shall die will be the death he will choose."

The woman's eyes came like lightning from the distance, and fastened upon his face.  Then he
said, with the back of his hand to his mouth to hide a yawn:

"The manner of her death will please the Mudir.  It must please him."

"What death does this vulture among women choose to die?" said the Sheikh-el-beled.

Her answer could scarcely be heard in the roar and the riot surrounding the hut.

A half-hour later Dicky entered the room where the Mudir sat on his divan drinking his coffee.
The great man looked up in angry astonishment--for Dicky had come unannounced-and his fat hands
twitched on his breast, where they had been folded.  His sallow face turned a little green.
Dicky made no salutation.

"Dog of an infidel!" said the Mudir under his breath.

Dicky heard, but did no more than fasten his eyes upon the Mudir for a moment.

"Your business?" asked the Mudir.

"The business of the Khedive," answered Dicky, and his riding-whip tapped his leggings.  "I
have come about the English girl."  As he said this, he lighted a cigarette slowly, looking,
as it were casually, into the Mudir's eyes.

The Mudir's hand ran out like a snake towards a bell on the cushions, but Dicky shot forward
and caught the wrist in his slim, steel-like fingers. This makes one pie. MINCE MEAT. MRS. HENRY THOMSON.
One pound of suet, one pound of fresh tongue, one pound apples, one
pound sugar, one pound raisins, one pound currants, two nutmegs, a
large teaspoon of cinnamon, ditto of cloves and salt, one half pound
of candied peel.

PIE PLANT PIE. MRS. R. M. STOCKING. One cup sugar, well beaten with
yolks of two eggs; add one pint of pie plant, bake with one crust,
then spread beaten whites, with tablespoon sugar over top; return
to oven a few moments.

RAISIN PIE. One cup chopped raisins, one half cup chopped apples, four tablespoons vinegar, one tablespoon
cornstarch, one cup of boiling water, one cup sugar, pinch of salt, mix together, bake with two crusts.
SOUR CREAM PIE.

One cup thick sour cream, pinch of salt, one egg, one half cup sugar,
scant tea-spoon of flour, one half cup raisins; beat cream, sugar,
and flour together, lay the raisins round on the top; bake with two
crusts.

Sliced bread to fill a pudding bowl; one layer of bread, one layer
of fruit with sugar to taste and small lumps of butter.

Continue until bowl is full, put a plate on top and steam for at
least two hours, more will do no harm.

Turn out a few minutes before wanted to let the juice penetrate the
bread that was uppermost.

COTTAGE PUDDING. MRS. W. W. HENRY. After rubbing together a cupful of sugar and a tablespoon of butter, add two eggs,
and after beating the mixture until light, add a cupful of milk; mix well in a sieve a pint of sifted
flour and three teaspoons of baking powder, rub through the sieve
into the mixture already made, beat quickly and pour the batter into
one large pudding dish or two small ones.

Sprinkle with sugar, bake in a moderate oven for forty minutes or
thirty if there be two.

Serve hot with lemon sauce or any sweet sauce.

LEMON SAUCE.-- Beat two eggs very light, and add one cup of sugar, one
tablespoon of melted butter, one small tablespoon of cornstarch, beat
all together, then add one cup of boiling water, cook five minutes,
boiling all the while.

Cook a little longer if set in a basin of hot water, take from the
fire, and add juice of lemon.

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. One quart of milk scalded, two eggs well beaten,
add gradually one cup sugar.

With the eggs and sugar mix two thirds cup of cornstarch, and three
heaping tablespoons grated chocolate dissolved over hot water, stir
into the milk until a soft custard, add one teaspoon of vanilla, serve
with whipped cream.

CHOCOLATE PUDDING.

MRS. W. J. FRASER. One quart of milk, one pint of bread crumbs, one tea
cup of sugar, three eggs, three tablespoonfuls of chocolate, one
half teaspoonful essence of vanilla.

Let the milk come to a boil, scald the bread crumbs, when almost
cool, beat the yolks of three eggs, add sugar and chocolate, to the
bread and milk.

Bake one half hour, slow oven.

When cool, beat the whites of three eggs and put meringues.

Blend three tablespoonfuls of cornstarch with a little cold milk, and when the milk and sugar boil stir
the starch in. Put it in a mould to get cold and eat with whipped
cream.

CARAMEL PUDDING. PUDDINGS. "The proof of the pudding lies in the
eating."

ALMOND PUDDING MRS. STOCKING. One pint of milk, two eggs, two heaping
tablespoons of maple sugar, one heaping tablespoon of cornstarch, flavor
with almond; cook milk, sugar, and cornstarch in double boiler, adding
yolks of eggs when boiling; pour into pudding dish, cover with whites
of the eggs, and brown in oven, to be served cold.

APPLE BATTER PUDDING. MRS. ERNEST F. WURTELE. Stew the apples in a pie dish, when soft place the
following batter on top: one egg, one tablespoon each of sugar and
butter, two tablespoonfuls each of milk and flour, one teaspoon of
baking powder, bake forty five minutes in a slow oven, serve with
cream.

MISS MITCHELL. Boil six eggs quite hard, then shell and cut them in
half; have drawn butter not too thick, flavor with curée powder.

Garnish the dish further by placing the ends of celery and sprigs
of parsley on top of each tomato.

Serve with toasted cheese, biscuits, or salted wafers.

Break the lobster meat into moderately small pieces, mash the yolks
of the eggs with a silver spoon and gradually add half the cream.

Place the butter in a granite ware saucepan, add the flour, let it cook
slowly for one minute and then pour in the balance of the cream and
stir until the liquid thickens. Add the first mixture and then the lobster
meat and the whites of the eggs sliced, season with cayenne pepper,
and salt, add the wine and serve at once.

LOBSTER À LA NEWBURG. MRS. HARRY LAURIE. Two tablespoons of butter,
one tablespoon of flour, stir until smooth, add one cup of cream, let it
heat through, then add one can of lobster.

Pepper and salt to taste and one half cup of Sherry or Port wine,
if desired; serve at once on squares of toast.

Canned chicken or salmon can be done the same way.

OYSTER COCKTAIL. MISS RITCHIE. One dessertspoonful tomato sauce, one shake of
tabasco, a sprinkle of horse radish, about half a dozen oysters, and
the same on top. Serve in small hats on a plate with pounded ice around
them and with oyster biscuits.

CRUSTINE.

MRS. A. COOK. Two pounds of lobster, one half cup of cream, two eggs (hard
boiled), one tablespoon flour, two tablespoons of Sherry wine, two tablespoons
of butter, salt and cayenne pepper to taste.

Take care that the oven be not too hot, or they will brown too quickly
and cause the pie to fall when taken out.

PASTRY.

FIG PUDDING.

MRS. THOM.

One cup suet, one half pound figs cut fine, two cups bread-crumbs,
one cup flour, one half cup brown sugar, one egg, one cup of milk,
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, steam three hours.

Cover with
the other half, press together and trim neatly. SALAD DRESSING WITHOUT
OIL. MRS. GILMOUR. The yolks of two egg boiled half an hour, one half
egg spoon of mustard, one dessert spoon of sugar, pinch of salt,
a little pepper.

One cup of sour or sweet cream, one dessert spoon of vinegar. SALAD
DRESSING FOR TOMATOES.

MRS. A. J. ELLIOT.

Half a cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, one cup of vinegar,
one tablespoon of salt, two tablespoons of made mustard, a dash of
sugar and cayenne, and four eggs.

Slice tomatoes and arrange in layers. Garnish dish with either salad or parsley.
METHOD: Scald the milk and melt the butter with it, pour this on
the eggs well beaten, add the salt and then the vinegar, this last
slowly, and stir all the time.

Then
cook in a pot in hot water, until as thick as custard, when cold add
the mustard.-- Prepared mustard is made as follows: two tablespoons mustard,
one teaspoon sugar, half a teaspoon salt, enough boiling water to
mix.

Half this quantity is enough for ordinary use. The above recipe is also good
for chicken. Put the eggs in boiling water. PRESERVING EGGS. MRS. FARQUHARSON
SMITH.

                   
                    
                    (Which keeps them
                    
                    from June to June.) Half a gallon of fresh lime to five gallons of
water added by degrees, two and one half gallons the first day, the
rest next, then add one half gallon coarse salt, stir two or three
times a day for three days, after this drop in four eggs gently.

                    

                    To test the strength
                    
                    of the lime-water drop
                    
                    in an egg that you know to be fresh, and
                    if it floats the lime is too strong, add another
                    gallon or more of water until you find the egg dropping to the bottom.
CURÉE EGGS. MRS. JAMES LAURIE.

Two eggs (well beaten), one cup sweet milk, one half cup vinegar
(scant) one teaspoon mixed mustard, one tablespoon butter (melted).

Pepper and salt to taste, mix thoroughly.

Set in kettle of boiling water and stir till it thickens, (about
four minutes), when ready to use it add two tablespoons cream.

SALAD SANDWICHES. Let boil for one hour; cut in two, remove the yolks
and leave the whites in cold water not to discolor.

Pound three anchovies in a mortar with one tablespoon butter, small
pinch of pepper, one shake cayenne, one half teaspoon lemon juice
and the yolks of the eggs.

When pounded smooth put back into the eggs.

Sardines can be used instead of the anchovies. STUFFED EGGS. MRS. W.
CLINT.

MISS M'GEE. Seven eggs, one cup of milk, one teaspoonful flour, parsley, pepper and salt. Beat the whites and
yolks separately, add the milk, pepper, salt, and chopped parsley and
the flour dissolved in a little milk, then add the whites, put in
the frying pan, leave on top of the stove for three minutes and put
in the oven for five minutes.

OMELETTE.

MISS
MAUD THOMSON.

The yolks of four beaten eggs, four tablespoons of milk, a pinch of
salt: beat the whites of the four eggs as stiff as possible, add to
the above, turn into a frying pan, until the mixture sets and then
put in the oven until a golden brown.

Boil the
eggs for ten minutes; take off the shells, cut lengthwise, take out
the yolks, mash them in a basin, add the butter melted, the minced
ham and the parsley.

Put the mixture into the whites of the eggs and return it a few minutes
to set them; now again taking it from the fire remove the cinnamon,
stir in the butter and vanilla and pour it on a buttered platter until
one third of an inch high.

When cold and stiff cut the pudding into parallelograms, about three
inches long and two inches wide: roll them carefully, first in sifted
cracker crumbs then in eggs (slightly beaten and sweetened) then again
in cracker-crumbs.

Dip these into boiling hot lard (a wire basket should be used if convenient) and when of fine color,
take them out and place them in the oven for four or five minutes
to better soften the pudding.

Sprinkle over pulverized sugar and serve immediately. FEATHER PUDDING. MRS. W. R. DEAN. One tablespoon
butter, one cup white sugar, two eggs, a little salt, one cup sweet
milk, two tablespoons baking powder three cups of flour, one and one
half teaspoons flavoring.

Steam one hour.

Eat with sauce.

MISS BEEMER. PASTE.

Four tablespoons of butter, ten teaspoons flour, two teaspoons baking
powder, one salt spoon salt, enough water to make a very soft paste.

Two tablespoonfuls of cornstarch wet with cold water, one cup of white sugar and one third
of a cup of butter. Stir together in a dish, pour on boiling water
to make a thick custard; stir in the well beaten yolks of three eggs,
bring to a boil.

Slice thin a few ripe bananas, pour the custard over them.

To make five rarebits take one pound cheese grate and put in the
saucepan; add ale (old is best) enough to thin the cheese sufficiently,
say about a wine glassful to each rarebit.

Place over the fire, stir until it is melted.

Have
ready a slice of toast for each rarebit (crusts trimmed); put a slice
on each plate, and pour cheese enough over each piece to cover it.

Serve at once. GOLDEN BUCK A "Golden Buck" is merely the addition of a
poached egg which is put carefully on top of rarebit. LOBSTER À LA
NEWBURG. MRS. J. G. SCOTT. PUMPKIN PIE. Boil the liver of two chickens,
(or turkey will do), pound them to a paste with a piece of butter
the size of a walnut, a teaspoon of anchovy and a little cayenne.

Serve on hot toast.

Small anchovies whole, laid on top are an improvement.

PIES. "Who dare deny the truth, there's poetry in pie."-- LONGFELLOW. Place your eggs
on a side dish, pour your curée round and finish with parsley: makes
a pretty lunch dish.

POACHED EGGS. Have nicely
cut hot buttered toast, with a little anchovy paste. After poaching your
eggs, put them on the toast and sprinkle finely chopped parsley over
them.

Garnish the dish with parsley. ANCHOVY EGGS. MADAME J. T. Boil three
eggs hard, turn in the water for the first two minutes. MRS. RATTRAY.
Take one coffee cup full of brown sugar, put it in a frying pan over
a slow fire and burn it, then pour it into one and a half pints of
milk in a saucepan and place the latter on the fire to come to a boil,
but do not stir it in case the milk should crack.

Be generous with the filling.

Use plenty of the mayonnaise and celery and fill tomatoes to the top.

SALAD DRESSING. MRS. R. STUART. CARAMEL PUDDING. MRS. FARQUHARSON
SMITH.

Everyone
should try this receipt; it will surprise many to know how soft cream
could be enveloped in the crust while it is an exceedingly good dish
for a dinner course or for lunch or tea.

When
the pudding is hard, it can be rolled in the egg and bread crumbs.

Mix together two cups of white sugar, yolks of three eggs, juice of two
lemons, grated rind of half a lemon; put it on the stove to boil and
add at once one tea-cup boiling water, stir smooth, then add two
tablespoons of corn starch, mixed in a little cold water, and one
tablespoon of butter, boil until it custards.

LEMON PIE. MRS. GEORGE CRESSMAN. Grate one lemon, put this down to
boil with two-thirds of a cup of water for ten minutes, strain through
fine sieve, then add one cup sugar, the juice of a lemon and butter
half the size of an egg, let boil a few minutes.

Mix two teaspoonfuls of corn-starch and yolk of one egg in half cup
milk stir in the mixture letting it boil until thick. Beat whites of
two eggs into stiff froth for frosting.

LEMON PIE. MRS. STRANG. Take two lemons, three eggs, two tablespoonfuls melted butter, eight tablespoonfuls white
sugar; squeeze the juice of the lemons and grate the rind of one,
stir together the yolks of three eggs and white of one with the sugar,
butter, juice and rind, then one (coffee) cup of sweet cream or milk,
beat all for a minute or two; have ready a plate lined with paste,
into which pour the mixture which will be sufficient for two or three
tablespoons of extra cold milk: stir it over the fire for fully two
minutes, to cook well the starch and flour; take it from the fire,
stir in the beaten yolks of the eggs.

Put the two halves together.

Serve on shallow dish with the following white sauce: one tablespoon
each of butter, flour, and salt, one cup milk, one saltspoon pepper.

Melt the butter add the flour, then the milk (gradually) and pepper and
salt. MRS. W. W. WELCH.

One pint of milk, one pound of brown sugar, one coffee cup of chopped
walnuts, two heaping tablespoons of cornstarch, pinch of salt.

Put the milk in a double boiler, when boiling put in cornstarch dissolved
in a little cold milk; let it cook a few minutes, put in the sugar
which has been previously burnt a little, then add the nuts, stir
a few minutes, flavor with vanilla, put into a mould, and eat with
whipped cream.

COCOANUT SPONGE.

MISS LAMPSON.

Two cups of stale sponge
cake crumbs, two cups of milk, one cup of grated cocoanut, yolks of two
eggs and whites of four, one cup of white sugar, one tablespoonful
of rose water, a little nutmeg.

GELATINE PUDDING (Pink.) MRS. W. R. DEAN. When nearly cold add the
eggs, sugar, rose water and lastly the cocoanut.

Bake three quarters of an hour in a buttered pudding dish.

Eat cold, with white sugar sifted over it.

DUTCH APPLE CAKE, LEMON SAUCE. MRS. STOCKING. FRIED CREAM. CHEESE DISHES.
CHEESE STRAWS. MRS. J. MACNAUGHTON. Mix one cupful of any good cheese grated
with one cupful of flour, one half saltspoonful of salt, a pinch
of cayenne pepper and butter the size of an egg.

MOCK CHERRY PIE. MRS. W. W. HENRY.

One cup cranberries cut up, one half cup of raisins chopped, one
half cup of cold water, one teaspoonful vanilla, one tablespoonful
corn-starch, two-thirds cup sugar, a little salt.

The moment the egg touches the hot lard it hardens and secures the
pudding which softens to a creamy substance very delicious.

Ingredients, one pint of milk, five ounces of sugar (little more
than half a cupful,) butter the size of a hickory nut, yolks of three
eggs, two tablespoonfuls of corn starch, and one tablespoonful of
flour, (a generous half cupful altogether), stick of cinnamon one
inch long, one half teaspoonful of vanilla.

Put one ounce pink gelatine and one quart of milk in a bowl on the
stove where it will not get hot; when dissolved add yolks of four
eggs, beaten with four tablespoons sugar, stir well, let it just come
to the boil, then add the whites well beaten, with four tablespoons
of sugar and a dessert spoon vanilla.

Turn into a mould and let it cool, then turn out and garnish with
whipped cream.

This is a very pretty dish. GRAHAM PUDDING. BANANA PUDDING. MISS J.
P. M'GIE. COCOANUT CUSTARD PIE. MR. JOSEPH FLEIG. (Baker, Grenoble
Hotel, N. Y.) Place on a deep pie plate a thin layer of pie crust, put
a good rim on the side and put into this one half cup of dried cocoanut;
fill up with a custard made as follows: three eggs, three ounces
of sugar beaten together with flavoring of lemon, vanilla or nutmeg,
little salt and add one pint of milk.

The custard must be three quarters of an inch thick.

LEMON PIE FILLING.

BAKED OMELET.

MRS. DUNCAN LAURIE. One cupful boiling milk, beat the yolks of four eggs, add hot
milk, and a tablespoonful melted butter, wet three teaspoonfuls
flour in a little cold milk add the beaten whites and beat all, salt and
pepper to taste. Bake twenty minutes. CHEESE OMELET. Three eggs, one
teaspoon of butter, one teaspoon of parsley, two tablespoons minced
ham.

Scald the milk and beat into this the cake crumbs.

Add enough cold water to enable you to roll thin.

Cut in strips and bake five or to ten minutes in a quick oven. CHEESE
SCALLOP. MISS FRASER. Soak one cup of dried bread crumbs in fresh
milk. Into this beat the yolks of three eggs, add one teaspoon
of butter, and half a pound of grated cheese. MRS. HENRY THOMSON. Three
eggs, well beaten, grated cheese the size of an egg, salt, three tablespoons
of fresh cream.

OMELET. Put whipped cream
on top or if not cream the whites of the three eggs well beaten with
sugar.

To be eaten cold.

BREAD PUDDING.

MRS. ARCHIBALD LAURIE. Strew upon the top sifted bread crumbs, and bake a delicate
brown. Whip the whites of the three eggs to a stiff froth; put on top and
return to the oven for a few minutes. THE CHAFING DISH. A Relish and a
Savory. WELSH RAREBIT. MISS GRACE M'MILLAN. Allow for each person one
egg, one tablespoonful of grated cheese, one half teaspoonful of butter,
one saltspoon of salt, and a few grains of cayenne. Cook like custard
until smooth.

Spread on toast and serve at once. WELSH RAREBIT. MISS BEEMER. Select
richest and best American cheese, (Canadian will do), the milder
the better, as melting brings out strength. Select round tomatoes of equal
size; peel and scoop out the seeds from the stem end.

Place the tomatoes on the ice till shortly before serving; then fill with celery
that has been chopped fine and mixed with mayonnaise.

Arrange the filled tomatoes on lettuce leaves on a flat dish or plate.

MRS. J. LAURIE. For twenty four slices of bread and butter, take two small
tomatoes, one small lettuce, one bunch cress, two tablespoons salad
oil, one tablespoon of vinegar, pepper and salt.

Shred
all the salad finely.

Mix well with the dressing and put a little on half the bread and
butter.

Put the cinnamon into the milk and when
it is just about to boil, stir in the sugar, cornstarch and flour,
the two latter rubbed smooth with two pies of the ordinary size. Bake
till the pastry is done.

Meanwhile beat the remaining whites to a stiff froth and stir in
four spoonfuls of white sugar.

Take the pies from the oven and spread over equal parts upon each
and return them quickly to the oven and bake a delicate brown.

  Thou shalt to-night admit Mustapha Bey to the harem--at
the hour of nine o'clock!"

"Saadat el basha!"  The eunuch's face was sickly in its terrified wonder.

"Even so.  At nine."

"But, saadat--"

"Bring him secretly, even to the door of the favourite's room; then, have him seized and carried
to a safe place till I send for him."

"Ah, saadat el basha--"  The lean face of the creature smiled, and the smile was not nice to see.

"Let no harm be done him, but await my messenger, Mahommed Yeleb, and whatsoever he bids you
to do, do it; for I speak."

"Ah, saadat el basha, you would strike Selamlik Pasha so--the great beast, the black river
pig, the serpent of the slime....!"

"You will do this thing, Mizraim?"

"I shall lure him, as the mirage the pilgrim.  With joy I will do this, and a hundred times more."

"Even if I asked of thee the keys of the harem?" asked Dicky grimly.

"Effendi, thou wouldst not ask.  All the world knows thee.  For thee the harem hath no lure.
Thou goest not by dark ways to deeds for thine own self.  Thou hast honour.  Ismail himself
would not fear thee."

"See, thou master of many, squeak not thy voice so high.  Ismail will take thy head and mine,
if he discovers to-night's business.  Go then with a soft tread, Mizraim.  Let thy hand be
quick on his mouth, and beware that no one sees!"

III

Upon the stroke of midnight Dicky entered the room where Selamlik Pasha awaited him with a
malicious and greasy smile, in which wanton cruelty was uppermost.  Selamlik Pasha knew well
the object of this meeting.  He had accurately interpreted the message brought by Mahommed
Yeleb.  He knew his power; he knew that the Englishman's life was in his hands to do with what
he chose, for the law of the harem which defies all outside law was on his side.  But here
he was come to listen to Dicky Donovan, the arrogant little favourite, pleading for the life
of the English boy who had done the thing for which the only penalty was death.

Dicky showed no emotion as he entered the room, but salaamed, and said: "Your Excellency is
prompt.  Honour and peace be upon your Excellency!" "Honour and the bounty of the stars be
upon thee, saadat el basha!"

There was a slight pause, in which Dicky seated himself, lighted a cigarette, and summoned
a servant, of whom he ordered coffee.  They did not speak meantime, but Dicky sat calmly, almost
drowsily, smoking, and Selamlik Pasha sat with greasy hands clasping and unclasping, his yellow
eyes fixed on Dicky with malevolent scrutiny.

When the coffee was brought, the door had been shut, and Dicky had drawn the curtain across,
Selamlik Pasha said: "What great affair brings us together here, saadat el basha?"

"The matter of the Englishman you hold a prisoner, Excellency."

"It is painful, but he is dead," said the Pasha, with a grimace of cruelty.

Dicky's eyes twitched slightly, but he answered with coolness, thrusting his elbow into the
cushions and smoking hard: "But, no, he is not dead. Selamlik Pasha has as great an instinct
for a bargain as for revenge. Also Selamlik Pasha would torture before he kills.  Is it not so?"

"What is your wish?"

"That the man be set free, Excellency."

"He has trespassed.  He has stolen his way into the harem.  The infidel dog has defiled the
house of my wives."

"He will marry the woman, with your permission, Excellency.  He loved her--so it would seem."

"He shall die--the dog of an infidel!"

Dicky was now satisfied that Sowerby was alive, and that the game was fairly begun.  He moved
slowly towards his purpose.

"I ask his life, as a favour to me.  The Khedive honours me, and I can serve you betimes, Excellency."

"You called me 'Trousers,' and all Egypt laughed," answered the Pasha malignantly.

"I might have called you worse, but I did not.  You may call me what you will--I will laugh."

"I will call you a fool for bringing me here to laugh at you, who now would kiss Selamlik Pasha's
shoe.  I would he were your brother.  I would tear out his fingernails, pierce his eyes, burn
him with hot irons, pour boiling oil over him and red cinders down his throat--if he were your
brother."

"Remember I am in the confidence of the Khedive, Pasha."

"Ismail!  What dare he do?  Every Egyptian in the land would call him infidel.  Ismail would
dare do nothing."  His voice was angrily guttural with triumph.

"England will ask the price of the young man's life of you, Excellency."

"England dare not move--is thy servant a fool?  Every Mussulman in the land would raise the
green flag--the Jehad would be upon ye!"

"He is so young.  He meant no ill.  The face of your daughter drew him on.  He did not realise
his crimen--or its penalty."

"It is a fool's reasoning.  Because he was a stranger and an infidel, so has he been told of
dark things done to those who desecrate our faith."

"Had he been an Egyptian or a Turk--"

"I should slay him, were he Ismail himself.  Mine own is mine own, as Mahomet hath said.  The
man shall die--and who shall save him?  Not even the Sultan himself."

"There are concessions in the Fayoum--you have sought them long."

"Bah!"

"There is the Grand Cordon of the Mejidieh; there is a way to it, Excellency."

"The man's blood!"

"There is a high office to be vacant soon, near to the person of the Khedive, with divers moneys
and loans--"

"To see Donovan Pasha cringe and beg is better."

"There is that mercy which one day you may have to ask for yourself or for your own--"

"The fool shall die.  And who shall save him?"

"Well, I will save him," said Dicky, rising slowly to his feet.

"Pish!  Go to the Khedive with the tale, and I will kill the man within the hour, and tell
it abroad, and we shall see where Donovan Pasha will stand to-morrow.  The Khedive is not stronger
than his people--and there are the French, and others!"  He spat upon the floor at Dicky's
feet. "Go, tell the Khedive what you will, dog of an Englishman, son of a dog with a dog's
heart!"  Dicky took a step forward, with an ominous flare of colour in his cheek.  There was
a table between him and Selamlik Pasha. He put both hands upon it, and leaning over said in
a voice of steel:

"So be it, then.  Shall I go to the Khedive and say that this night Mustapha Bey, eldest and
chosen son of Selamlik Pasha, the darling of his fat heart, was seized by the Chief Eunuch,
the gentle Mizraim, in the harem of his Highness?  Shall I tell him that, Trousers?"

As Dicky spoke, slowly, calmly, Selamlik Pasha turned a greenish-yellow, his eyes started from
his head, his hand chafed the air.

"Mustapha Bey--Khedive's harem!" he stammered in a husky voice.

"By the gentle Mizraim, I said," answered Dicky.  "Is Mustapha Bey's life worth an hour's purchase?
Is Selamlik Pasha safe?"

"Is--is he dead?" gasped the cowardly Egyptian, furtively glancing towards the door.  Suddenly
he fell back fainting, and Dicky threw some water in his face, then set a cup of it beside him.

"Drink, and pull yourself together, if you would save yourself," said Dicky.

"Save--save myself," said Selamlik Pasha, recovering; then, with quick suspicion, and to gain
time, added quickly: "Ah, it is a trick!  He is not a prisoner--you lie!"

"I have not a reputation for lying," rejoined Dicky quietly.  "But see!" he added; and throwing
open a door, pointed to where the Chief Eunuch stood with Mahommed Yeleb, Mustapha Bey gagged
and bound between them. Dicky shut the door again, as Selamlik Pasha shrank back among the
cushions, cowardice incarnate.

"You thought," said Dicky with a soft fierceness" you thought that I would stoop to bargain
with Selamlik Pasha and not know my way out of the bargain?  You thought an Englishman would
beg, even for a life, of such as you!  You thought me, Donovan Pasha, such a fool!"

"Mercy, Excellency!" said Selamlik, spreading out his hands.

Dicky laughed.  "You called me names, Selamlik--a dog, and the son of a dog with a dog's heart.
Was it wise?"

"Is there no way?  Can no bargain be made?"

Dicky sat down, lighting a cigarette.

"To save a scandal in Egypt," answered Dicky drily, "I am ready to grant you terms."

"Speak-Excellency."

"The life of the Englishman for the life of your son and your own.  Also, the freedom of the
six Circassian slaves whom you house now at Beni Hassan, ready to bring to your palace.  Also,
for these slaves two hundred Turkish pounds apiece.  Also, your written word that you will
bring no more slaves into Egypt.  Is the bargain fair?"

"Mizraim may still betray us," said Selamlik, trembling, with relief, but yet apprehensive.

"Mizraim is in my power--he acts for me," said Dicky.  "Whose life is safe here save my own?"

"Malaish!  It shall be as your will is, Excellency," answered Selamlik Pasha, in a shaking
voice; and he had time to wonder even then how an Englishman could so outwit an Oriental. 
It was no matter how Mustapha Bey, his son, was lured; he had been seized in the harem, and
all truth can be forsworn in Egypt, and the game was with this Donovan Pasha.

"Send to your palace, commanding that the Englishman be brought here," said Dicky.  Selamlik
Pasha did so.

Sowerby of the Mounted Infantry was freed that night, and the next day Dicky Donovan had six
Circassian slaves upon his hands.  He passed them over to the wife of Fielding Bey with whom
he had shared past secrets and past dangers.

Selamlik Pasha held his peace in fear; and the Khedive and Cairo never knew why there was a
truce to battle between Dicky Donovan and that vile Pasha called Trousers.

AT THE MERCY OF TIBERIUS

In a certain year when Dicky Donovan was the one being in Egypt who had any restraining influence
on the Khedive, he suddenly asked leave of absence to visit England.  Ismail granted it with
reluctance, chiefly because he disliked any interference with his comforts, and Dicky was one
of them--in some respects the most important.

"My friend," he said half petulantly to Dicky, as he tossed the plans for a new palace to his
secretary and dismissed him, are you not happy here? Have you not all a prince can give?"

"Highness," answered Dicky, "I have kith and kin in England.  Shall a man forget his native
land?"  The Khedive yawned, lighted a cigarette, and murmured through the smoke: "Inshallah!
It might be pleasant--betimes."

"I have your Highness's leave to go?" asked Dicky.  "May God preserve your head from harm!"
answered Ismail in farewell salutation, and, taking a ring from his finger set with a large
emerald, he gave it to Dicky.  "Gold is scarce in Egypt," he went on, "but there are jewels
still in the palace--and the Khedive's promises-to-pay with every money- barber of Europe!"
he added, with a cynical sneer, and touched his forehead and his breast courteously as Dicky
retired.

Outside the presence Dicky unbuttoned his coat like an Englishman again, and ten minutes later
flung his tarboosh into a corner of the room; for the tarboosh was the sign of official servitude,
and Dicky was never the perfect official.  Initiative was his strong point, independence his
life; he loathed the machine of system in so far as he could not command it; he revolted at
being a cog in the wheel.  Ismail had discovered this, and Dicky had been made a kind of confidential
secretary who seldom wrote a line.  By his influence with Ismail he had even more power at
last than the Chief Eunuch or the valet-de-chambre, before whom the highest officials bowed
low.  He was hated profoundly by many of the household, cultivated by certain of the Ministers,
fawned upon by outsiders, trusted by the Khedive, and entirely believed in by the few Englishmen
and Frenchmen who worked for decent administration faithfully but without hope and sometimes
with nausea.

It was nausea that had seized upon Dicky at last, nausea and one other thing--the spirit of
adventure, an inveterate curiosity.  His was the instinct of the explorer, his feet were the
feet of the Wandering Jew. He knew things behind closed doors by instinct; he was like a thought-
reader in the sure touch of discovery; the Khedive looked upon him as occult almost and laughed
in the face of Sadik the Mouffetish when he said some evil things of Dicky.  Also, the Khedive
told the Mouffetish that if any harm came to Dicky there would come harm to him.  The Khedive
loved to play one man off against another, and the death of Sadik or the death of Dicky would
have given him no pain, if either seemed necessary. For the moment, however, he loved them
both after his fashion; for Sadik lied to him, and squeezed the land dry, and flailed it with
kourbashes for gold for his august master and himself; and Dicky told him the truth about everything--which
gave the Khedive knowledge of how he really stood all round.

Dicky told the great spendthrift the truth about himself; but he did not tell the truth when
he said he was going to England on a visit to his kith and kin.  Seized by the most irresistible
curiosity of his life, moved by desire for knowledge, that a certain plan in his mind might
be successfully advanced he went south and east, not west and north.

For four months Egypt knew him not.  For four months the Khedive was never told the truth save
by European financiers, when truths were obvious facts; for four long months never saw a fearless
or an honest eye in his own household.  Not that it mattered in one sense; but Ismail was a
man of ideas, a sportsman of a sort, an Iniquity with points; a man who chose the broad way
because it was easier, not because he was remorseless.  At the start he meant well by his people,
but he meant better by himself; and not being able to satisfy both sides of the equation, he
satisfied one at the expense of the other and of that x quantity otherwise known as Europe.
Now Europe was heckling him; the settling of accounts was near.  Commissioners had been sent
to find where were the ninety millions he had borrowed.  Only Ismail and Sadik the Mouffetish,
once slave and foster-brother, could reply.  The Khedive could not long stave off the evil
day when he must "pay the debt of the lobster," and Sadik give account of his stewardship.
Meanwhile, his mind turned to the resourceful little Englishman with the face of a girl and
the tongue of an honest man.

But the day Dicky had set for his return had come and gone, and Dicky himself had not appeared.
With a grim sort of satisfaction, harmonious with his irritation, Ismail went forth with his
retinue to the Dosah, the gruesome celebration of the Prophet's birthday, following on the
return of the pilgrimage from Mecca.  At noon he entered his splendid tent at one side of a
square made of splendid tents, and looked out listlessly, yet sourly, upon the vast crowds
assembled--upon the lines of banners, the red and green pennons embroidered with phrases from
the Koran.  His half-shut, stormy eyes fell upon the tent of the chief of the dervishes, and
he scarcely checked a sneer, for the ceremony to be performed appealed to nothing in him save
a barbaric instinct, and this barbaric instinct had been veneered by French civilisation and
pierced by the criticism of one honest man.  His look fell upon the long pathway whereon, for
three hundred yards, matting had been spread.  It was a field of the cloth of blood; for on
this cloth dervishes returned from Mecca, mad with fanaticism and hashish, would lie packed
like herrings, while the Sheikh of the Dosah rode his horse over their bodies, a pavement of
human flesh and bone.

As the Khedive looked, his lip curled a little, for he recalled what Dicky Donovan had said
about it; how he had pleaded against it, describing loathsome wounds and pilgrims done to death.
Dicky had ended his brief homily by saying: "And isn't that a pretty dish to set before a king!"
to Ismail's amusement; for he was no good Mussulman, no Mussulman at all, in fact, save in
occasional violent prejudices got of inheritance and association.

To-day, however, Ismail was in a bad humour with Dicky and with the world.  He had that very
morning flogged a soldier senseless with his own hand; he had handed over his favourite Circassian
slave to a ruffian Bey, who would drown her or sell her within a month; and he had dishonoured
his own note of hand for fifty thousand pounds to a great merchant who had served him not wisely
but too well.  He was not taking his troubles quietly, and woe be to the man or woman who crossed
him this day! Tiberius was an hungered for a victim to his temper.  His entourage knew it well,
and many a man trembled that day for his place, or his head, or his home.  Even Sadik the Mouffetish--Sadik,
who had four hundred women slaves dressed in purple and fine linen--Sadik, whose kitchen alone
cost him sixty thousand pounds a year, the price of whose cigarette ash-trays was equal to
the salary of an English consul--even Sadik, foster-brother, panderer, the Barabbas of his
master, was silent and watchful to-day.

And Sadik, silent and watchful and fearful, was also a dangerous man. As Sadik's look wandered
over the packed crowds, his faded eyes scarce realising the bright-coloured garments of the
men, the crimson silk tents and banners and pennons, the gorgeous canopies and trappings and
plumes of the approaching dervishes, led by the Amir-el-Haj or Prince of the Pilgrims, returned
from Mecca, he wondered what lamb for the sacrifice might be provided to soothe the mind of
his master.  He looked at the matting in the long lane before them, and he knew that the bodies
which would lie here presently, yielding to the hoofs of the Sheikh's horse, were not sufficient
to appease the rabid spirit tearing at the Khedive's soul.  He himself had been flouted by
one ugly look this morning, and one from Ismail was enough.

It did his own soul good now to see the dervish fanatics foaming at the mouth, their eyes rolling,
as they crushed glass in their mouths and ate it, as they swallowed fire, as they tore live
serpents to pieces with their teeth and devoured them, as they thrust daggers and spikes of
steel through their cheeks, and gashed their breasts with knives and swords. He watched the
effect of it on the Khedive; but Ismail had seen all this before, and he took it in the stride.
This was not sufficient.

Sadik racked his brain to think who in the palace or in official life might be made the scapegoat,
upon whom the dark spirit in the heart of the Khedive might be turned.  His mean, colourless
eyes wandered inquiringly over the crowd, as the mad dervishes, half-naked, some with masses
of dishevelled hair, some with no hair at all, bleached, haggard, moaning and shrieking, threw
themselves to the ground on the matting, while attendants pulled off their slippers and placed
them under their heads, which lay face downwards.  At last Sadik's eyes were arrested by a
group of ten dervishes, among them one short in stature and very slight, whose gestures were
not so excited as those of his fellows.  He also saw that one or two of the dervishes watched
the slight man covertly.

Five of the little group suddenly threw themselves upon the matting, adding their bodies to
the highway of bones and flesh.  Then another and another did the same, leaving three who,
with the little man, made a fanatical chorus.  Now the three near the little man began to cut
themselves with steel and knives, and one set fire to his jibbeh and began to chew the flames.
Yet the faces of all three were turned towards the little man, who did no more than shriek
and gesticulate and sway his body wildly up and down.  He was tanned and ragged and bearded
and thin, and there was a weird brilliance in his eyes, which watched his companions closely.

So fierce and frenzied were the actions of those with him, that the attention of the Khedive
was drawn; and Sadik, looking at his master, saw that his eyes also were intently fixed on
the little man.  At that instant the little man himself caught the eye of the Khedive, and
Ismail involuntarily dropped a hand upon his sword, for some gesture of this dervish, some
familiar turn of his body, startled him.  Where had he seen the gesture before?  Who was this
pilgrim who did not cut and wound himself like his companions?  Suddenly the three mad dervishes
waved their hands towards the matting and shrieked something into his ear.  The little man's
eyes shot a look at the Khedive.  Ismail's ferret eye fastened on him, and a quick fear as
of assassination crossed his face as the small dervish ran forward with the other three to
the lane of human flesh, where there was still a gap to be filled, and the cry rose up that
the Sheikh of the Dosah had left his tent and was about to begin his direful ride.

Sadik the Mouffetish saw the Khedive's face, and suddenly said in his ear: "Shall my slave
seize him, Highness whom God preserve?"

The Khedive did not reply, for at that moment he recognised the dervish; and now he understood
that Dicky Donovan had made the pilgrimage to Mecca with the Mahmal caravan; that an infidel
had desecrated the holy city; and that his Englishman had lied to him.  His first impulse was
to have Dicky seized and cast to the crowd, to be torn to pieces.  Dicky's eyes met his without
wavering--a desperate yet resolute look--and Ismail knew that the little man would sell his
life dearly, if he had but half a chance.  He also saw in Dicky's eyes the old honesty, the
fearless straightforwardness--and an appeal too, not humble, but still eager and downright.
Ismail's fury was great, for the blue devils had him by the heels that day; but on the instant
he saw the eyes of Sadik the Mouffetish, and their cunning, cruelty, and soulless depravity,
their present search for a victim to his master's bad temper, acted at once on Ismail's sense
of humour.  He saw that Sadik half suspected something, he saw that Dicky's three companions
suspected, and his mind was made up on the instant--things should take their course--he would
not interfere. He looked Dicky squarely in the face, and Dicky knew that the Khedive's glance
said as plainly as words:

"Fool of an Englishman, go on!  I will not kill you, but I will not save you.  The game is
in your hands alone.  You can only avert suspicion by letting the Sheikh of the Dosah make
a bridge of your back.  Mecca is a jest you must pay for."

With the wild cry of a dervish fanatic Dicky threw himself down, his head on his arms, and
the vengeful three threw themselves down beside him. The attendants pulled off their slippers
and thrust them under their faces, and now the siais of the Sheikh ran over their bodies lightly,
calling out for all to lie still--the Sheikh was coming on his horse.

Dicky weighed his chances with a little shrinking, but with no fear: he had been in imminent
danger for four long months, and he was little likely to give way now.  The three men lying
beside him had only suspected him for the last three days, and during that time they had never
let him out of heir sight.  What had roused their suspicion he did not know: probably a hesitation
concerning some Arab custom or the pronunciation of some Arab word--the timbre of the Arab
voice was rougher and heavier.  There had been no chance of escape during these three days,
for his three friends had never left his side, and now they were beside him.  His chances were
not brilliant.  If he escaped from the iron hoofs of the Sheikh's horse, if the weight did
not crush the life out of his small body, there was a fair chance; for to escape unhurt from
the Dosah is to prove yourself for ever a good Mussulman, who has undergone the final test
and is saved evermore by the promise of the Prophet.  But even if he escaped unhurt, and the
suspicions of his comrades were allayed, what would the Khedive do?  The Khedive had recognised
him, and had done nothing--so far.  Yet Ismail, the chief Mussulman in Egypt, should have thrown
him like a rat to the terriers!  Why he had acted otherwise he was not certain: perhaps to
avoid a horrible sensation at the Dosah and the outcry of the newspapers of Europe; perhaps
to have him assassinated privately; perhaps, after all, to pardon him.  Yet this last alternative
was not reasonable, save from the stand-point that Ismail had no religion at all.

Whatever it was to be, his fate would soon come, and in any case he had done what only one
European before him had done--he had penetrated to the tomb of Mahomet at Mecca.  Whatever
should come, he had crowded into his short life a thousand unusual and interesting things.
His inveterate curiosity had served him well, and he had paid fairly for the candles of his
game.  He was ready.

Low moans came to his ears.  He could hear the treading hoofs of the Sheikh's horse.  Nearer
and nearer the frightened animal came; the shout of those who led the horse was in his ears:
"Lie close and still, O brothers of giants!" he heard the ribs of a man but two from him break-
he heard the gurgle in the throat of another into whose neck the horse's hoof had sunk.  He
braced himself and drew his breast close to the ground.

He could hear now the heavy breathing of the Sheikh of the Dosah, who, to strengthen himself
for his ride, had taken a heavy dose of hashish.  The toe of the Arab leading the horse touched
his head, then a hoof was on him--between the shoulders, pressing-pressing down, the iron crushing
into the flesh--down--down--down, till his eyes seemed to fill with blood.  Then another hoof--and
this would crush the life out of him.  He gasped, and nerved himself.  The iron shoe came down,
slipped a little, grazed his side roughly, and sank between himself and the dervish next him,
who had shrunk away at the last moment.

A mad act; for the horse stumbled, and in recovering himself plunged forward heavily.  Dicky
expected the hind hoofs to crush down on his back or neck, and drew in his breath; but the
horse, excited by the cries of the people, drove clear of him, and the hind hoofs fell with
a sickening thud on the back and neck of the dervish who had been the cause of the disaster.

Dicky lay still for a moment to get his breath, then sprang to his feet lightly, cast a swift
glance of triumph towards the Khedive, and turned to the dervishes who had lain beside him.
The man who had shrunk away from the horse's hoofs was dead, the one on the other side was
badly wounded, and the last, bruised and dazed, got slowly to his feet.

"God is great," said Dicky to him: "I have no hurt, Mahommed."

"It is the will of God.  Extolled be Him who created thee!" answered the dervish, all suspicion
gone, and admiration in his eyes, as Dicky cried his Allah Kerim--"God is bountiful!"

A kavass touched Dicky on the arm.

"His Highness would speak with you," he said.  Dicky gladly turned his back on the long lane
of frantic immolation and the sight of the wounded and dead being carried away.  Coming over
to the Khedive he salaamed, and kneeling on the ground touched the toe of Ismail's boot with
his forehead.

Ismail smiled, and his eyes dropped with satisfaction upon the prostrate Dicky.  Never before
had an Englishman done this, and that Dicky, of all Englishmen, should do it gave him an ironical
pleasure which chased his black humour away.

"It is written that the true believer shall come unscathed from the hoofs of the horse.  Thou
hast no hurt, Mahommed?"

"None, Highness, whose life God preserve," said Dicky in faultless Arabic, with the eyes of
Sadik upon him searching his mystery.

"May the dogs bite the heart of thine enemies!  What is thy name?" said Ismail.

"Rekab, so God wills, Highness."

"Thine occupation?"

"I am a poor scribe, Highness," answered Dicky with a dangerous humour, though he had seen
a look in the Khedive's face which boded only safety.

"I have need of scribes.  Get you to the Palace of Abdin, and wait upon me at sunset after
prayers," said Ismail.

"I am the slave of your Highness.  Peace be on thee, O Prince of the Faithful!"

"A moment, Mahommed.  Hast thou wife or child?"

"None, Highness."

"Nor kith nor kin?"  Ismail's smile was grim.

"They be far away, beyond the blessed rule of your Highness."

"Thou wilt desire to return to them.  How long wilt thou serve me?" asked Ismail slowly.

"Till the two Karadh-gatherers return," answered Dicky, quoting the old Arabic saying which
means for ever, since the two Karadh-gatherers who went to gather the fruit of the sant and
the leaves of the selem never returned.

"So be it," said the Khedive, and, rising, waved Dicky away.  "At sunset!"

"At sunset after prayers, Highness," answered Dicky, and was instantly lost in the throng which
now crowded upon the tent to see the Sheikh of the Dosah arrive to make obeisance to Ismail. 

The gold is always red, and the ladies even gay, though nothing whatever may depend on the hue of the gold,
or the temper of the ladies.

But these adjectives are mere customary additions. They merge in the substantives
to which they are attached. If they at all colour the idea, it is
with a tinge so slight as in no respect to alter the general reef.

In the passage which we have quoted from Dryden the case is very different.
"perhaps" and "aromatic" divert our whole attention to themselves,
and dissolve the image of the battle in a moment.

The whole poem reminds us of Lucan, and of the worst parts of Lucan,--
the sea-fight in the Bay of Marseilles, for example. The description of
the two fleets during the night is preciously the only passage which
ought to be exempted from this censure.

If it was from the Annus Mirabilis that Milton formed his opinion, when
he pronounced Dryden a good rhymer but no poet, he certainly judged correctly.
But Dryden was, as we have said, one of those writers in whom the period
of imagination does not precede, but follow, the period has crooked
horns, and every woman a high bosom, though these particulars may
be quite beside the purpose.

In our old ballads a similar practice prevails. Every spear casts
a long shadow, every ox of observation and reflection. His plays,
his rhyming plays in particular, are admirable subjects for those
who wish to study the morbid anatomy of the drama. He was utterly destitute
of the power of exhibiting real human beings.

Even in the imperfect inferior talent of composing characters out of those elements into which the far process
of our reason can resolve them, he was very deficient.

His men are not always coarse personifications; they are not well-assorted
assemblages of qualities. Now and then, indeed, he seizes a very good and
marked distinction, and gives us, not a likeness, but a strong caricature,
in which a single peculiarity is protruded, and everything else neglected;
like the Marquis of Granby at an inn-door, whom we know by nothing
but his baldness; or Wilkes, who is Wilkes only in his squint.



This was of a Friday, and on the Saturday following David did his first startling act--he offered
marriage to Hope Marlowe, the only Quaker girl in Framley who had ever dared to discard the
poke bonnet even for a day, and who had been publicly reproved for laughing in meeting--for
Mistress Hope had a curious, albeit demure and suggestive, sense of humour; she was, in truth,
a kind of sacred minuet in grey.  Hope had promptly accepted David, at the same time taunting
him softly with the fact that he had recklessly declared he would never marry, even saying
profanely that upon his word and honour he never would!  She repeated to him what his own mother
once replied to his audacious worldly protests:

"If thee say thee will never, never, never do a thing, thee will some day surely do it."

Then, seeing that David was a bit chagrined, Hope slipped one hand into his, drew him back
within the door, lifted the shovel hat off his forehead, and whispered with a coquetry unworthy
a Quaker maid:

"But thee did not say, friend David, thee would never, never, never smite thy friend on both
cheeks after she had flouted thee."

Having smitten her on both cheeks, after the manner of foolish men, David gravely got him to
his home and to a sound sleep that night.  Next morning, the remembrance of the pleasant smiting
roused him to an outwardly sedate and inwardly vainglorious courage.  Going with steady steps
to the Friends' meeting-house at the appointed time, the Spirit moved him, after a decorous
pause, to announce his intended marriage to the prettiest Quaker in Framley, even the maid
who had shocked the community's sense of decorum and had been written down a rebel--though
these things he did not say.

From the recesses of her poke bonnet Hope watched the effect of David's words upon the meeting;
but when the elders turned and looked at her, as became her judges before the Lord, her eyes
dropped; also her heart thumped so hard she could hear it; and in the silence that followed
it seemed to beat time to the words like the pendulum of a clock: "Fear not- Love on!  Fear
not--Love on!"  But the heart beat faster still, the eyes came up quickly, and the face flushed
a deep, excited red when David, rising again, said that, with the consent of the community--a
consent which his voice subtly insisted upon--he would take a long journey into the Holy Land,
into Syria, travelling to Baalbec and Damascus, and even beyond as far as the desolate city
of Palmyra; and then, afterwards, into Egypt, where Joseph and the sons of Israel were captive
aforetime.  He would fain visit the Red Sea, and likewise confer with the Coptic Christians
in Egypt, "of whom thee and me have read to our comfort," he added piously, looking at friend
Fairley, the oldest and heretofore the richest man in the community.

Friend Fairley rejoiced now that he had in by-gone days lent David books to read; but he rejoiced
secretly, for though his old bookman's heart warmed at the thought that he should in good time
hear, from one who had seen with his own eyes, of the wonders of the East, it became him to
assume a ponderous placidity--for Framley had always been doubtful of his bookishness and its
influence on such as David.  They said it boded no good; there were those even who called Fairley
"a new light," that schism in a sect.

These God-fearing, dull folk were present now, and, disapproving of David's choice in marriage,
disapproved far more of its consequence; for so they considered the projected journey into
the tumultuous world and the garish Orient.  In the end, however, an austere approval was promised,
should the solemn commission of men and women appointed to confer with and examine the candidates
find in their favour--as in this case they would certainly do; for thirty thousand pounds bulked
potently even in this community of unworldly folk, though smacking somewhat of the world, the
flesh and the devil.

If David, however, would stand to the shovel hat, and if Hope would be faithful for ever to
the poke bonnet and grey cloth, all might yet be well.  At the same time, they considered that
friend David's mind was distracted by the things of this world, and they reasoned with the
Lord in prayer upon the point in David's presence.

In worldly but religiously controlled dudgeon David left the meeting- house, and inside the
door of Hope's cottage said to his own mother and to hers some bitter and un-Quaker-like things
against the stupid world-- for to him as yet the world was Framley, though he would soon mend that.

When he had done speaking against "the mad wits that would not see," Hope laid her cool fingers
on his arm and said, with a demure humour: "All the world's mad but thee and me, David--and
thee's a bit mad!"

So pleased was David's mother with this speech that then and there she was reconciled to Hope's
rebellious instincts, and saw safety for her son in the hands of the quaint, clear-minded daughter
of her old friend and kinswoman, Mercy Marlowe.

II

Within three months David and Hope had seen the hills of Moab from the top of the Mount of
Olives; watched the sun go down over the Sea of Galilee; plucked green boughs from the cedars
on Lebanon; broken into placid exclamations of delight in the wild orchard of nectarine blossoms
by the lofty ruins of Baalbac; walked in that street called Straight at Damascus; journeyed
through the desert with a caravan to Palmyra when the Druses were up; and, at last, looked
upon the spot where lived that Pharaoh who knew not Joseph.

In this land they stayed; and even now far up the Nile you will hear of the Two Strange People
who travelled the river even to Dongola and some way back--only some way back, for a long time.
In particular you will hear of them from an old dragoman called Mahommed Ramadan Saggara, and
a white-haired jeweller of Assiout, called Abdul Huseyn.  These two men still tell the tale
of the two mad English folk with faces like no English people ever seen in Egypt, who refused
protection in their travels, but went fearlessly among the Arabs everywhere, to do good and
fear not.  The Quaker hat and saddened drab worked upon the Arab mind to advantage.

In Egypt, David and Hope found their pious mission--though historians have since called it
"whimsical and unpractical": David's to import the great Syrian donkey, which was to banish
the shame of grossly burdening the small donkey of the land of Pharaoh; and Hope's to build
schools where English should be taught, to exclude "that language of Belial," as David called
French.  When their schemes came home to Framley, with an order on David's bankers for ten
thousand pounds, grey-garbed consternation walked abroad, and in meeting the First Day following
no one prayed or spoke for an hour or more.  At last, however, friend Fairley rose in his place
and said:

"The Lord shall deliver the heathen into their hands."

Then the Spirit moved freely and severely among them all, and friend Fairley was, as he said
himself, "crowded upon the rails by the yearlings of the flock."  For he alone of all Framley
believed that David and Hope had not thrown away the Quaker drab, the shovel hat and the poke
bonnet, and had gone forth fashionable, worldly and an hungered, among the fleshpots of Egypt.
There was talk of gilded palaces, Saracenic splendours and dark suggestions from the Arabian
Nights.

Still, the ten thousand pounds went to David and Hope where they smilingly laboured through
the time of high Nile and low Nile, and khamsin and sirocco, and cholera, and, worse than all,
the banishments to the hot Siberia of Fazougli.

But Mahommed Ramadan Saggara babbles yet of the time when, for one day, David threw away his
shovel hat; and Abdul Huseyn, the jeweller, tells how, on the same day, the Sitt--that is,
Hope--bought of him a ring of turquoises and put it on her finger with a curious smile.

That day David and Hope, the one in a pith helmet, the other with a turquoise ring on her left
hand, went to dine with Shelek Pasha, the Armenian Governor of the province, a man of varied
talents, not least of which was deceit of an artistic kind.  For, being an Armenian, he said
he was a true Christian, and David believed him, though Hope did not; and being an Oriental,
he said he told the truth; and again David believed him, though Hope did not.  He had a red
beard, an eye that glinted red also, and fat, smooth fingers which kept playing with a string
of beads as though it were a rosary.

As hard as he worked to destroy the Quaker in David, she worked against him; and she did not
fear the end, for she believed in David Hyam of Framley.  It was Shelek Pasha's influence,
persistently and adroitly used for two years, which made friend David at last put aside for
this one day his Quaker hat.  And the Pasha rejoiced; for, knowing human nature after a fashion,
he understood that when you throw the outer sign away--the sign to you since your birth, like
the fingers of your hand--the inner grace begins decadence and in due time disappears.

Shelek Pasha had awaited this with Oriental patience, for he was sure that if David gave way
in one thing he would give way in all--and with a rush, some day.  Now, at last, he had got
David and Hope to dine with him; he had his meshes of deceit around them.

When they came to dinner Shelek Pasha saw the turquoise ring upon the finger of friend Hope,
and this startled him and pleased him.  Here, he knew, was his greatest enemy where David was
concerned, and yet this pretty Saint Elizabeth was wearing a fine turquoise ring with a poke
bonnet, in a very worldly fashion.  He almost rubbed his eyes, it was so hard to believe; for
time and again he had offered antichi in bracelets, rings and scarabs, and fine cottons from
Beni-Mazar; and had been promptly and firmly told that the Friends wore no jewelry nor gay
attire. Shelek Pasha, being a Christian--after the Armenian fashion--then desired to learn
of this strange religion, that his own nature might be bettered, for, alas!  snares for the
soul are many in the Orient.  For this Hope had quietly but firmly referred him to David.

Then he had tried another tack: he had thrown in his interest with her first school in his
mudirieh; he got her Arab teachers from Cairo who could speak English; he opened the large
schoolhouse himself with great ceremony, and with many kavasses in blue and gold.  He said
to himself that you never could tell what would happen in this world, and it was well to wait,
and to watch the approach of that good angel Opportunity.

With all his devices, however, he could not quite understand Hope, and he walked warily, lest
through his lack of understanding he should, by some mischance, come suddenly upon a reef,
and his plans go shipwreck. B itself declares plainly that from yourselves they are an failure.
And B is the oldest codex of the Gospel in being. What candid mind will persist in clinging to
the solitary fact that from the double codex א these verses are away, in proof that“ S. Mark’ s Truth
was at first without the verses which at present reason it?” let others decide, therefore, whether
the present discussion has not already reached a stage at which an unprejudiced Arbiter might be
expected to address the prosecuting parties somewhat to the leading
effect:—“ this case must now be dismissed.

The charge brought by yourselves against these Verses was, that they
are an unauthorized addition to the second Gospel; a spurious appendix,
of which the Evangelist S. Mark can have known nothing.

But so far from confirm this charge, you have not adduced a single particle of evidence which renders
it even probable.” the problem may, in fact, be briefly stated as follows. Of the four Verses
concerning which you are so solicitous,” (it look to say,)“ I yet waver not to confess to you
that an older copy than myself,— the ancient codex from which i was copied,— actually did contain them.“
the appeal was made by itself to Fathers and to MSS. It has been accepted.
And with what result? (a)“ those many Fathers whom you represented
as hostile, prove on investigation to be reducible to one, viz.

Eusebius:
and Eusebius, as we have seen, does not say that the verses are spurious,
but on the contrary labours hard to prove that they may very well
be genuine. On the other extremity, there are earlier Fathers than
Eusebius who quote them without any signs of misgiving.

In this
way, the positive evidence in their favour is transport back to the
iind century.

And it will be seen that logically this brings the inquiry to a close,
as far as the evidence of the manuscripts is concerned. We have referred
to the oldest extant copy of the Gospels in order to obtain its testimony:
and,—“ though without the twelve oldest Codices of the Gospels extant,—
B, א, a, C,— two (Bacillus and א) are without these twelve verses:
two (a and C) are with them.

Are these twelve verses then an unauthorized addition to a and C?
or are they an unwarrantable omission from B and א

?
  As the bottle was being opened the Pasha took up his string of beads and began
to finger them, for the blue eyes in the poke bonnet were disconcerting.  He was about to speak
when Hope said, in a clear voice:

"Thee has a strange people beneath thee.  Thee rules by the sword, or the word of peace, friend?"
The fat, smooth hands fingered the beads swiftly.  Shelek Pasha was disturbed, as he proved
by replying in French --he had spent years of his youth in France: "Par la force morale, toujours,
madame--by moral force, always," he hastened to add in English. Then, casting down his eyes
with truly Armenian modesty, he continued in Arabic: "By the word of peace, oh woman of the
clear eyes--to whom God give length of days!"

Shelek Pasha smiled a greasy smile, and held the bottle of champagne over the glass set for
friend David.

Never in his life had David the Quaker tasted champagne.  In his eyes, in the eyes of Framley,
it had been the brew especially prepared by Sheitan to tempt to ruin the feeble ones of the
earth.  But the doublet of David's mind was all unbraced now; his hat was off, his Quaker drab
was spotted with the grease of a roasted lamb.  He had tasted freedom; he was near to license now.

He took his hand from the top of the glass, and the amber liquid and the froth poured in. 
At that instant he saw Hope's eyes upon his, he saw her hand go to the poke bonnet, as it were
to unloosen the strings. Fellow thought it was a bill of sale for thirty estate he was signing, and
it was three hundred.

"" best thing was when he made old man Meeker believe he was dying,
and deed over a good fifty thousand dollars for stock to his daughter-- and
married the girl, sir, before the old fellow found he was good in
twenty years more.

He made the air smell of brimstone the remainder of his life if you mentioned Garvey to him! drowned
in a ford a winter or two later, after all.  He reached out quickly and caught Hope's hand as it undid the strings
of her grey bonnet.  "Will thee be mad, Hope?"

"All the world's mad but thee and me, David, and thee's a bit mad," she answered in the tongue
of Framley.

"The gaud upon thy hand?" he asked sternly; and his eyes flashed from her to Shelek Pasha,
for a horrible suspicion crept into his brain--a shameless suspicion; but even a Quaker may
be human and foolish, as history has shown.

"The wine at thine elbow, David, and thine hat!" she answered steadily.

David, the friend of peace, was bitterly angry.  He caught up the glass of champagne and dashed
it upon the fine prayer-rug which Shelek Pasha had, with a kourbash, collected for taxes from
a Greek merchant back from Tiflis--the rug worth five hundred English pounds, the taxes but
twenty Turkish pounds.

"Thee is a villain, friend," he said to Shelek Pasha in a voice like a noise in a barrel; "I
read thee as a book."

"But through the eyes of your wife, effendi; she read me first--we understand each other!"
answered the Governor with a hateful smile, knowing the end of one game was at hand, and beginning
another instantly with an intelligent malice.

Against all Quaker principles David's sinful arm was lifted to strike, but Hope's hand prevented
him, and Shelek Pasha motioned back the Abyssinian slaves who had sprung forward menacingly
from behind a screen.

Hope led the outraged David, hatless, into the street.

III

That evening the Two Strange People went to Abdul Huseyn, the jeweller, and talked with him
for more than an hour; for Abdul Huseyn, as Egyptians go, was a kindly man.  He had taught
Arabic to David and Hope.  He would have asked more than twelve pieces of silver to betray them.

The next afternoon a riot occurred around the house of the Two Strange People and the school
they had built; and Shelek Pasha would have had his spite of them, and his will of the donkey-market,
the school, and the cotton-fields, but for Abdul Huseyn and three Sheikhs, friends of his--at
a price--who addressed the crowd and quieted them. **** the curses of the books of all the prophets be upon
the culprits who have thus compelled our gallant and national soldiery to mingle their tears with their own
blood and the blood of the enemy!

Nov. 18.-- again Seward assures Lord Lyons that the even general troubles
will soon be over, and that the mad affairs of the country "stand where
he wanted them." Seward's crew circulate in the most positive terms,
that the country will be pacified by the State Department!  He also added that they could not be enemies
of the Faithful, or a Christian Mudir would not have turned against them.  And Abdul Huseyn
prevailed against Shelek Pasha--at a price; for Hope, seeing no need for martyrdom, had not
hesitated to open her purse.

Three days afterward, David, with Abdul Huseyn, went to the Palace of the Khedive at Cairo,
and within a week Shelek Pasha was on his way to Fazougli, the hot Siberia.  For the rage of
the Khedive was great when he heard what David and Abdul Huseyn told him of the murderous riot
Shelek Pasha had planned.  David, being an honest Quaker--for now again he wore his shovel
hat--did not realise that the Khedive had only hungered for this chance to confiscate the goods
of Shelek Pasha.  Was it not justice to take for the chosen ruler of the Faithful the goods
an Armenian Christian had stolen from the poor?  Before David left the Palace the Khedive gave
him the Order of the Mejidfeh, in token of what he had done for Egypt.

In the end, however, David took three things only out of Egypt: his wife, the Order of the
Mejidfeh, and Shelek Pasha's pardon, which he strove for as hard as he had striven for his
punishment, when he came to know the Khedive had sent the Mudir to Fazougli merely that he
might despoil him. He only achieved this at last, again on the advice of Abdul Huseyn, by giving
the Khedive as backsheesh the Syrian donkey-market, the five hundred feddans of cotton, and
Hope's new school.  Then, believing in no one in Egypt any more, he himself went with an armed
escort and his Quaker hat, and the Order of the Khedive, to Fazougli, and brought Shelek Pasha
penniless to Cairo.

Nowadays, on the mastaba before his grandson's door, Abdul Huseyn, over ninety "by the grace
of Allah," still tells of the backsheesh he secured from the Two Strange People for his help
on a certain day. 

The thought so flashed into his mind of a dreadful contents of his
old game-sack.

"Th'bomb," he said. "Th'dynamighty bomb that I was savin'for th'revenuers!
Let that finish out th'man as circle'em onto me!"

He took the bomb from the sack with trembling fingers, laid it by
Salian'mho side and, with a match which flickered because the hands
which keep it were unsteady as a palsied man's, set fire to the fuse.
Then he drew off to one side.

"Now, burn!" he said, with set teeth
and lowering brow.

